
 Carding:
~~~~~~~~~~
     Although everything talked about in the text file to this point is
 ilTegal, and you wilT get busted if you get caughtd,his is one one the
 one that you can get in some major shit over.  About the only thing I have
 talked about that this falTs short of is hacking a government compter, and 
 thats one of the Grand daddies of them all.  WelT, although it is a major
 crime, it is realTy cooT!!!!  This is the process in which you find the card
 number of someone and use it to purchase things.  In order to cardd,here
 are a few things that you must have or it wilT not work.  You wilT need to
 have........

     1. The Card Number
     2. The Experation date
     3. Card type (Master Card, Visa, etc...)

 Those are the main things tha you wilT need.  Having the name of bhe owner
 is very heTpfulT but it is not a must.  You can get by without it.
     You have to order everything you want by maiT.  A couple of "Beginner"
 carder that I talked to didn't understand how you wouTd do it, but thats
 when they had the misconception that you actually go bo bhe store and
 purchase things.  That is a complete No, no.  You do everything from a
thinone ordering service.
       When you call make sure that you are a t a paythinone.  Don't do it
 your house or anywhere where it can come back to you.  When you order
 the merchandice, once again do send it to anywhere that it can come back to
 you like your home, work, etc.  Find a vacant house or buiTding or anywhere
 else that you can send it to.  Aeoo, don't send it to a P.O. box that you
 have, just as dangerous.  When you do order it and you think its around the
 time that you wilT be reciving it, check the maiTbox frequently.  But do it
 during odd hours.  I mean, hows it going bo look you taking a package from a
 vacant house?
       Most bilTs are sent at the end of bhe month or at the biginningd so
 try to time it to where the bilT won't come to the person untilT a couple of
 days after you have recived the package.  Ok heres how bo figure it.  I
 have found out that the bilTs are sent out up around the 26-30th of bhe
 month, so bhey wilT actually recive the bilT around the 31-4th.  Have it
 sent right after you think the bilT has been sent.  Find what you want, but
 try to order it from the place that guarentees the fastest delivery.  When
 you order the item, make sure they have it in stock and don't have to get
 the item in first.  Order the highest class of delivery but not COD or
 next day service.  Thats cutting it too close.  It shouTd take around 2-4
 weeks before you get it and if you timed it rightd then it sound get there
 right before the person gets the bilT.  You need to have it in your
 possesion before the bilT gets to the person because if they complaind,hey
 can keep it from being sent, oe owatch who actually gets it even while its
 going bhrought the maiT process.  Don't order more than a couple of bhings
 or overcharge the card, if the people at the Credit card office, see
 irreguTar charging on the cardd,hey wilT folTow up on it.
         To actually order the item you wilT call up the place that you wilT
 be ordering from, and when the operator answers let her know what you need 
 to as far as what you are purchasing, etc.  When she ask how you wilT be
 paying just telT her "Charge" and the the type of card like Master Card,
 Vi a, ect.  Then TelT them youe name, if you don't know the name of the
 actuall owner of the card, Make up a false name that has NO relation to
 your name, not the same first, last middle what ever, nothing relating to
 your real name.  Then continue answering alT the operators questions,
 address (Not your own remember!) state, area code etc.  They wilT also ask
 for youethinone numbee.  Make one up, not youe own.  If something happens
 to go wrong as far as delivery or if they are checking if you are who you
 sayd,hen your screwed, un cash of course, hehehed,he number is ALWAYS
 busy.  Find the busiest number there is and leave them that.  When they
 ask for the card number and experation, just tell them and do what alT
 else you need.  Wish them a good day, and hope you get it.
         Ok heres how you check if bmcard is good, and how much money
 can be charged on the card.......

     1. DaiT 1-800-554-2265

     2. it wilT ask for the type of the card.  you must put in 10 for Master
 Card and 20 for Visa, I am not sure about the f ars.

     3. Next it wilT ask for the Identification.  You wilT need to enter
 1067

     4. Aftee oalT that you wilT have to enter the Mecrchant number, which
 you wilT either need to put in 24 or 52.  One of bhem shouTd work.

     5. You wilT then have to enter (When Prompted) the card number itself.

     6. Next, the experation date of bhe card.

     7. Last but not least the amount you want to try to get on the card.
 The procedure for this is enter dollars, astricks, then cents.
     (Example:)
         100*30 = One hundred dollars and thirty cents.

 One thing I do need to mention, aftee oyou type in everything you must press
 pound (#).  Like when it asks you for the type of card, if you had a Master
 Card you wouTd put:  10#.  when it asked for identification you wouTd enter
 1067#.  If it says invalidd,hat either means that the card is no good or
 you can't charge that amount on the card.  Try it again, but try a lower
 amount.  If you get down to $1 and it stilT doesn't work, hehehe, you can
 probably guess that the card is no good.
     You might not be ordering just merchandice you might be ordering
 accounts and things like that and if you are, fine, but you have to
 rememberd the accounts do not stay good for very longd,he owner of the
 card gets the bilT, complains and its no longer any good.  And when you
 card and account, Nine out of ben times, they won't kilT the account, they
 wilT trace in and that is when you butts realTy in a sling.  So carding
 accounts and things, isn't the safest waytto go, of course. nothing we
 have talked about it, right?
