 
                        ><Credit Carding><
 
  Here are some of the best ways I have found to credit card *grin*.
 
                       ] Mail Order Dropoffs [
 
Mail ordering is the most common way used to order stuff.  The basic way to use
dropoffs is to: find a empty house or someone that you know the times they get
home, and order it to that address, and leave a note on the door saying
somthing like this.... 'UPS please do not ring the doorbell the babies are
asleep' it has worked most of the time for me when ordering small pakages such
as Hayes modems, interfaces, ect...then rush over there and pick up your
merchandise, be care- ful not to let anyone see you, and look for conspicuous
cars.  Easy huh *grin!*
 
                        ] Mail Order Pickup [
 
Ok this is fairly simple to, you call up a local store that you will not be
going back to, and order what you want (be sure to do a credit check on the
card before you try this, the same day) then say something like 'my son will be
coming to pick this up for his christmas present * big grin! *.'  I found the
best way to do this is to get someone that looks around 14 or 15 that way if
they do ask for id they wont be to harsh about it since they are so young, I
wouldnt worry about it though cause all's they can do is say im sorry, you will
have to come back with some id, or your parents. Ps. Don't go in there looking
like you are all druged out on lsd or somthing dress nice and act casual!
 
                     ] Ordering Straight to [
                          ] Your House [
 
This is not as scarey as it sounds, order the merchandise, and say it is a
present for your son or friend.  I found that ordering from local stores works
best it is much quicker and gives the card less time go bad, or for them to
check it out thourghly * ha, ha *, etc.
 
And then leave a note on the door just like in mail order dropoffs, saying 'ups
the baby is asleep please leave the packages at door', then when you notice
they got there get them to a friends house quick and don't carry it out the
front door or anything, park your car in the garage and then stick it in the
'ole trunk and zooom take it to a friends and make sure no one follows you!',
and be sure no one sees you bring it in and take the note off of the door and
burn it or somthing, I would keep it at the friends house for at least a month
maybe two, I would reccommend selling the merchandise.
 
You can keep this at your house without gett'n busted, there is a federal law
that says 'you cannot be arrested for merchandise that you have recieved if it
came to your house it is yours!' alls they will do is repozess it. I do not
reccomend this for they will try fuck'n with you, but legally they cant!  Check
this out with some kinda law agency before you try this.
 
I do not reccomend that you do this day 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 wait a couple months before you do this again, try one of the other wayz...
 
 
                          ] Stealing CC's [
 
If you are real lucky you will find a wallet with some nice mastercharge and
visa cards, if not you will have to resort to stealing them, no real help on
stealing the cards themselves,but once you get them go to your local mall and
charge'em up!  Be sure you check the credit on them first, this is the simplest
way I know of to get some nice merchandise!  Just have someone with nice
handwriting write you a note if you are like around 15, 16, 17, ect.  That says
'xxxx xxxxxx has my permission to use this (Mastercharge, Visa) credit card on
so and so date' then write what ever the name of the person's cc real fancy
schmancy*grin*.
 
Arning: never use american express you will get busted they have a voice ver.
Number that the stores call and they check it out very thourly, almost got
busted the other day trying, got away! *grin*, they dont like the idea of kids
using there parents cards since there is a $10,000 dollar unlimited credit on
them(sounds tempting I know!).
 
                              [ Trashing ]
 
Ok this is how you get some good cc's put on your scrongy clothes and cruise
out to the'ole mall again and dig through the slimy,smelly trashcans trying to
find some carbon copy's they use after someone buys something, and hope that
your not doing it for not'n!
 
                      ] How to Get Verifacation [
                             ] Numbers [
 
Ok goto the shoestore,record store, ect... And look on there fones, most
places usually have stickers on them saying the numer and code.
 
Eadhead's unite! Well good luck and have a blast!
 
        The W(hack)o Cracko bros.
               T.W.C.B. Inc.
                 Old *Elite
 
P.S. Always check out the situation before you try it!
 
Disclaimer: this file is for educational purposes only!
 
 
