NATIONAL LAWYERS GUILD
COMMITTEE ON DEMOCRATIC COMMUNICATIONS
100 Sansome Street, Suite 900
San Francisco, California 94104
Telephone: (415) 705-6464




UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT





WILLIAM LEIGH 
DOUGAN,
        
          
Petitioner,
	v.

FEDERAL 
COMMUNICATIONS 
COMMISSION, UNITED 
STATES OF AMERICA,

          Respondent        
____________________
_________


 )
 )
 )
 )
 )
 )
 )
 )
 )
 )
 )
 


No. 92-70734

NAL/Acct. No. 
215DS0007


                               )
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,      )	No. 93-55433
                         	 )
		Plaintiff-Appellee,  )	NAL/Acct. No. CV-91-06431-RG
     v.                        )
	  					 )
TOM REVEILLE,				 )
						 )
		Defendant-Appellant. )
_______________________________)

INTRODUCTION
	The National Lawyers Guild's Committee on Democratic 
Communications contends that Federal Communications Commission 
(F.C.C.) policies with regard to micro radio broadcasting have 
failed to keep pace with the rapid proliferation of technological 
advances in the field of communication.  The F.C.C.'s current 
regulatory scheme completely prohibits micro radio broadcasters 
and their listeners from accessing the public airwaves.  To 
enforce this absolute prohibition, the F.C.C. relies upon 
regulations, and case law applying the regulations, which were 
intended solely for application to large-scale, commercial 
broadcasters, and which were promulgated long before the advent 
of the technology that makes possible micro radio; indeed, even 
before the advent of FM broadcasting.  As a result, the F.C.C.'s 
application of these regulations violates the First Amendment 
rights of individuals seeking to exercise those rights via 
methods and mediums that were technologically impossible when the 
regulations were created. 
	The cost of owning and operating a radio station has  
skyrocketed into the hundreds of thousands and even million 
dollar range, and participation in the broadcast media has 
thereby become limited only to large corporations.  The 
individual seeking to communicate and listen to others over the 
airwaves in his or her local community is completely left out of 
the licensing scheme if he or she cannot afford the expenses 
entailed in purchasing, obtaining a license for and operating a 
commercial broadcast station with at least 100 watts of power. 
	The National Lawyers Guild Committee on Democratic 
Communications recognizes micro radio as a method by which 
ordinary people can communicate with one another over the 
airwaves without interfering with the rights of large-scale, 
F.C.C. licensed commercial stations or their listeners.  The 
F.C.C., however, has not provided a means by which persons 
wishing to avail themselves of this new technological opportunity 
can legally do so.  The problem is not that micro radio 
broadcasters are refusing to comply with F.C.C. licensing 
procedures.  Rather, the fundamental problem is that the F.C.C. 
has not provided procedures by which micro radio broadcasters can 
become licensed or authorized.  Instead, the F.C.C. is applying 
severe administrative and criminal sanctions, intended for 
application to large-scale, commercial operators, to micro radio 
broadcasters with the goal of completely precluding all such 
broadcasts.  When viewed in this light, the very notion of 
assessing substantial forfeitures of as much as $20,000 against 
individuals with no prior F.C.C. violations, accused of 
transmitting a brief, low-power, non-commercial broadcast, is 
ludicrous indeed.
	It is the obligation of the F.C.C. to construct and enforce 
its regulatory framework in such a way as to safeguard the First 
Amendment right of free speech for all persons, regardless of 
their economic power.  By totally prohibiting low-power micro 
radio, the F.C.C. 1) fails to comply with its congressional 
mandate to regulate the airwaves in the public convenience, 
interest and necessity, 2) exceeds the limits of the power 
conferred upon it by Congress, and 3) violates the constitutional 
rights of micro radio broadcasters and their listeners.


II.	THE COMPLETE AND ABSOLUTE PROHIBITION OF MICRO RADIO  
BROADCASTS RESULTING FROM THE F.C.C.'S IMPROPER 
IMPLEMENTATION OF THEIR STATUTORY AUTHORITY VIOLATES THE 
FIRST AMENDMENT. 
	The foremost purpose of requiring radio broadcasters to 
obtain licenses from the F.C.C. is to prevent interference from 
other radio broadcasts.  The F.C.C. maintains that due to the 
finite size of the radio spectrum, or "spectrum scarcity", only 
a limited number of radio frequencies are capable of 
broadcasting at the same time in the same space without undue 
interference from neighboring signals.  The F.C.C. argues that 
this so-called spectrum scarcity somehow justifies the 
application of a lower level of First Amendment protection for 
persons utilizing the air-waves as compared to other forums. 
 	The F.C.C. itself, however, has found the concept of 
"spectrum scarcity" to be an improper basis for applying a 
different constitutional standard to broadcast media than to 
other forms of media. In re Syracuse Peace Council, 2 F.C.C. 
Rcd 5043 (1987).  As the Commission pointed out in Syracuse 
Peace Council, while it may be true that there are only a 
finite number of broadcast frequencies, this is no less true of 
the computers, delivery trucks, ink and newsprint which are 
used in the production of printed speech:
. . .[W]e simply believe that, in analyzing the 
appropriate First Amendment standard to be applied to the 
electronic press, the concept of scarcity -- be it 
spectrum or  numerical-- is irrelevant.  As Judge Bork 
said in  Trac v. F.C.C. [801 F.2d at 508],  'Since 
scarcity is a universal fact, it can hardly explain 
regulation in one context and not another.  The attempt 
to use a universal fact as a distinguishing principle 
necessarily leads to analytical confusion.' 2 F.C.C. Rcd 
5043, 5055.

 	The Commission went on to state that:

[The] First Amendment was adopted to protect the people 
not from journalists, but from the government. It gives 
people the right to receive ideas that are unfettered by 
government interference.  We fail to see how this right 
changes when individuals choose to receive ideas from the 
electronic media instead of the print media.  There is no 
doubt that the electronic media is powerful and that 
broadcasters can abuse their freedom of speech.  But the 
framers of the Constitution believed that the potential 
for abuse of private freedoms posed far less a threat to 
democracy than the potential for abuse by a government 
given the power to control the press.  (Id. at 5057.)   

		The F.C.C. must ensure that their regulations provide 
micro radio broadcasters the same constitutional protections 
that have been established for more traditional means of 
expression.  The F.C.C. is constitutionally required to develop 
a regulatory procedure appropriate to this media rather than 
simply creating and enforcing a complete and absolute 
prohibition of micro radio.  This current F.C.C. policy 
constitutes a prior restraint of free speech in violation of 
the First Amendment.
 	The people of the United States have a constitutionally 
protected interest in free speech by means of radio and other 
forms of broadcast media.  The Supreme Court has previously 
recognized the supremacy of the rights of the people as a whole 
to have the medium of radio function consistently with the ends 
and purposes of the First Amendment.  Red Lion Broadcasting, 
395 U.S. 367, 390 (1969).  Given the Supreme Court's 
recognition of the supremacy of these public rights, the 
F.C.C.'s assertion of an, at best, remote, and as yet 
undocumented possibility that micro radio may interfere with 
the broadcasts of licensed, commercial stations is simply 
inadequate to overcome the right of radio listeners to receive 
the broad variety of view-points, perspectives, and programming 
formats which micro radio offers. The advent of micro radio not 
only gives radio listeners a low-cost alternative to the 
perspectives presented on mainstream, commercial radio, but it 
furthermore allows members of the public the opportunity to 
participate and present their own personal and local community 
interests in a direct and effective way, making the public 
airwaves truly public for the first time.

[COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS IN OTHER COUNTRIES. . .]
	In Appendix 1 of the F.C.C.'s Report and Recommendations 
in the Low Power Television Inquiry (BC Docket No. 78-
253)(1980???) the study of very low power FM transmitters 
conducted on behalf of the Canadian Department of 
Communications recommended that application forms and required 
information be simple enough to allow for easy application by 
potential low power licensees.  Id. at 50.  Such an 
application, along with rules governing broadcasts on low power 
micro radio stations, is included here as Exhibit 1??? (see 
attached).  These forms request operational information (name 
of licensee, address, etc.), technical information 
(frequency/channel, antenna location, type of equipment, etc.) 
information concerning the community being served, and 
statements as to how operation of a low power transmitter will 
serve the needs of the community.  A cursory examination of 
Exhibit 1 indicates that the licensing and administrative 
requirements necessary to oversee operation of micro radio 
stations are not burdensome.  Indeed, these licensing forms 
reveal that micro radio can be easily regulated so as to 
prevent any risk of signal interference, and that rules which 
prohibit the operation of micro radio where there is a 
compelling need are an arbitrary exercise of the Commission's 
powers which fail to advance the public interest.

	Safety concerns/Planes falling from sky.

III.	THE FCC's FAILURE TO PROVIDE FOR MICRO RADIO BROADCASTING 
RESULTS IN THE COMPLETE PROHIBITION ALL MICRO RADIO 
BROADCASTING, IN VIOLATION OF 47 CFR § 73.201 ET SEQ.
		The Commission has recently gone to great lengths to 
argue that its regulations do not in fact completely prohibit 
micro radio.  In its "Forfeiture Order" in a case very similar 
to Mr. Dougan's , the Commission stated the following:
[The alleged offender] could have, in fact, petitioned 
the Commission to amend its rules in Part 73 to once 
again allow operation at the 10 watt level in the 
reserved Non-Commercial Educational FM band between 88 
and 92 MHz, or he could have applied for a station 
license (authorization) to operate a 10-watt station on a 
channel above 92 MHz, or he could have petitioned the 
Commission to amend its rules to allow non-licensed 
operation under Part 15 of the rules with signal 
strengths in excess of that currently permitted. . . .
The reply fails to note that non-licensed operation of 
radio transmitters as "micro radio broadcasts" on any 
frequency of the operator’s choosing within the FM 
broadcast band is in fact provided for in a blanket 
authorization per 47 CFR §15.239(b).  Operation in excess 
of the field strength limits so provided constitutes 
activity for which a specific authorization - a radio 
station license - is required.  If [the alleged offender] 
wished to have these limits raised, he could have 
petitioned the Commission to institute a rulemaking 
procedure to that end.

In addition, were [the alleged offender] or his 
colleagues affiliated with a non-profit educational 
organization intending to use the station in the 
advancement of an educational program (however loosely 
defined), the organization would be eligible for 
licensing a Non-Commercial Educational FM Broadcast 
station, on available frequencies and on a non-
interference basis, as detailed in 47 CFR §§ 73.501 et. 
seq.  Provisions are made for operation at the power 
level of 10 watts - the general power level which [the 
alleged offender] appears to be using - on available 
channels above 92 MHz.
The above is clear indication that there is no "complete 
and absolute prohibition" against what the reply 
continues to call "micro radio broadcasts." 

  	A careful analysis of the above listed opportunities for 
micro radio broadcasting within the F.C.C.’s current regulatory 
framework reveals that there is, in fact, a complete 
prohibition of micro radio broadcasting.  The suggestions 
offered by the Commission break down to the following:
1)	Petition the Commission to change the current regulatory 
framework;

2) 	Apply for a license to operate a 10 watt station above 92 
MHz;

3) 	Broadcast as permitted under 47 CFR 15.239(b);

		4) 	Apply for a license to operate a Non-Commercial 
Educational FM Broadcast station under 47 CFR §§ 73.501 
et. seq.  		

		Number 2 above is, in effect, the same as petitioning 
for a rule change, since the minimum power requirements for 
acquiring a license to operate above 92 MHz are 100 watts or a 
six kilometer reference distance.   Number 3 above is 
meaningless, since the field strength permitted by §15.239(b) 
is so low as to preclude any micro radio broadcast capable of 
being received beyond 1 or 2 blocks away from the transmitter.  
The Commission’s suggestion that a 10 watt broadcast could 
comply with the field strength limitations imposed by 
§15.239(b) is misleading, at best.
	Number 4 above is similarly misleading.  47 CFR §73.511(a) 
explicitly provides that "No new Non-Commercial Educational 
station will be authorized with less power than minimum power 
requirements for commercial Class A facilities," that is, less 
than 100 watts.  While it may be true that no one is precluded 
under the current regulatory framework from applying for a 
license as the Commission  suggests in number 4 above, it is 
also true that no such application can possibly be approved by 
the Commission under its current regulations.
		The deceptively long list provided by the Commission, 
then, boils down to "ask us to change our rules."  Given that 
there are absolutely no standards or limitations governing the 
Commission’s discretion in considering an application for a 
rule change or waiver, this "option" is meaningless.  It is 
well established in First Amendment jurisprudence that 
regulations which vest absolute or near absolute discretion in 
an agency to approve or deny exceptions to a generally 
applicable rule are unconstitutional.    	It is the 
obligation of the F.C.C. to construct and enforce its 
regulatory framework in such a way as to safeguard the First 
Amendment right of free speech for all persons, regardless of 
their economic power.  By totally prohibiting low-power micro 
radio, the Commission has failed to comply with its 
congressional mandate to regulate the airwaves in the public 
interest, has exceeded the limits of the power conferred upon 
it by Congress, and is violating the constitutional rights of 
micro radio broadcasters and their listeners.


III.	THE F.C.C.'s ARBITRARY, CAPRICIOUS AND SELECTIVE METHOD OF 
ENFORCING RESTRICTIONS AGAINST MICRO RADIO WHERE SUCH 
BROADCASTS SERVE THE PUBLIC INTEREST, CONVENIENCE AND 
NECESSITY PURSUANT TO 47 CFR §73.201 ET SEQ VIOLATES THE 
FIRST AMENDMENT INTERESTS OF MICRO BROADCASTERS AND THEIR 
LISTENERS.
	
		The F.C.C., in issuing Notices of Apparent Liability 
(N.A.L.) to micro radio broadcasters, regularly indicate that 
the forfeiture amount is determined pursuant to the F.C.C.'s 
Policy Statement, Standards for Assessing Forfeitures, 
(hereinafter "Policy Statement") and that according to the 
standards therein, "the base forfeiture amount for operation 
without authorization in broadcast services is $20,000.00."  
The F.C.C.'s Policy Statement, however, was never meant to be 
applied to unlicensed low power micro radio broadcasters.  This 
is readily apparent from an analysis of the legislative history 
of the Policy Statement, and from the fact that such 
application in this case results in a base forfeiture amount 
that violates 47 CFR § 1.80(b)(3) and 47 U.S.C. § 503(b) , the 
statutory authority upon which the Policy Statement is based.
		The Policy Statement was adopted by the F.C.C. in 
July, 1991, and was released August, 1991.  In June, 1992, the 
F.C.C. issued a  Memorandum Opinion and Order denying several 
petitions for reconsideration of the Policy Statement 
(Memorandum Opinion and Order, 70 RR 2d 1207), wherein the 
F.C.C. explained the background of the Policy Statement:
In 1989, Congress amended the Communications Act of 1934 
to increase substantially the maximum dollar amounts of 
forfeitures the Commission could impose under Section 
503(b) and under other sections of the Act.  Previously, 
Section 503(b) limited the Commission's forfeiture 
authority to $20,000 for broadcasters and common carriers 
and to $5,000 for all other services.  The amended 
section 503(b) now provides the Commission with authority 
to assess forfeitures of up to $25,000 against 
broadcasters, cable operators, or applicants for such 
facilities, $100,000 against common  carriers or 
applicants for such facilities, and $10,000 against 
others. . . . The Commission's forfeiture rule [47 CFR § 
1.80(b)(1)-(3)] has been amended to reflect the higher 
forfeiture amounts. . . . On August 1, 1991, the 
Commission released the Policy Statement to assist both 
the Commission and licensees in adjusting to the 
statutory increases.  The Policy Statement provides base 
forfeiture amounts for a wide range of generic violations 
. . . . The base forfeiture amount for each type of 
violation is a percentage of the statutory maximum for 
the service involved for each violation. . . . The base 
forfeiture amount may be increased or decreased by 
applying adjustment criteria  as relevant to the facts of 
any particular case."  Memorandum Opinion and  Order, 70 
RR 2d 1207 [emphasis added].
	The Memorandum Opinion and Order specifically states that 
the Policy Statement was released to assist "the Commission 
and licensees," and both the Memorandum Opinion and Order and 
the Policy Statement itself refer numerous times to the effect 
of the Policy Statement on licensees, but neither make any 
mention whatsoever of non-licensees.  Moreover, the standards 
set forth in the Policy Statement list thirty-eight categories 
of violations to which the new standards are to be applied.  
None of these categories refers to unlicensed radio 
broadcasts. 
	The F.C.C. apparently bases the determination of micro 
radio forfeiture amounts on the standards set forth in the 
Policy Statement for violations within the category listed as  
"Construction and/or Operation Without an Instrument of 
Authorization for the Service." (Policy Statement, Standards 
for Assessing Forfeitures, appearing in the Appendix to the 
Memorandum Opinion and Order, 70 RR at p. 1211).   The F.C.C., 
apparently interprets this category to include unlicensed micro 
radio broadcasting.  Such an interpretation of the Policy 
Statement is, at best, strained. 
		When the F.C.C. has, in the past, instructed its 
agents and the public as to the forfeiture amounts to be 
assessed for unlicensed radio operations, it has stated its 
intention plainly and clearly.  Public Notice 2049, promulgated 
March 5, 1990, and published at 67 RR 2d 619, stated:
FCC TO INCREASE FINES FOR UNLICENSED RADIO OPERATIONS
Unauthorized Radio Operations; Forfeitures.

The Amount of the routine administrative monetary 
forfeiture for unauthorized operation of a radio station 
is increased from $750 to $1000.  The routine forfeiture 
amount for first violations of the proscription of 
unauthorized operation in the aviation, maritime, public 
safety and special emergency radio services is increased 
from $1000 to $1,250.  These increases are prompted by 
increasing complaints of interference stemming from 
illegal pirate operations and other unauthorized 
activities.  Unlicensed Radio Operations (Routine Fines). 
67 RR 2d 619 [1990].

The Commission is increasing the amount of a routine 
administrative monetary forfeiture for the unauthorized 
operation of a radio station.  The usual amount for a 
first time violation will be changed from $750 to $1000. 
. . .

The increases were prompted by numerous complaints of 
interference resulting from "piracy" of the airwaves.  
FCC licensees, broadcast associations and radio listeners 
have reported increased illegal operations and a 
proliferation of abusive activities.  Such malicious 
practices violate FCC's Rules, impede efficient 
management of the spectrum and frustrate spectrum users."  
67 RR 2d 619
		The F.C.C. has issued no subsequent Public Notice 
indicating any further change in F.C.C. policy or guidelines 
with respect to unlicensed micro radio broadcasting.  The 
Policy Statement that  was issued in 1991 cannot, under any 
reasonable interpretation of its language or history, be held 
to supersede Public Notice 2049.  	The Policy Statement, as 
discussed above, was issued in response to, and in keeping 
with, the statutory increases contained in the 1989 amendments 
to 47 U.S.C. § 503(b).  Those increases were, as the F.C.C. has 
noted, "substantial." (Memorandum Opinion and Order, 70 RR 
1207).  The maximum forfeiture amounts for the various 
categories of violators were increased, respectively, as 
follows: Licensed broadcasters, cable operators, or applicants 
for such facilities, increase of 25%, from $20,000 to $25,000; 
Common carriers or applicants for such facilities, increase of 
500%, from $20,000 to $100,000;  All others, increase of 100%, 
from $5000 to $10,000.  However, the F.C.C.'s attempt with 
respect to micro radio broadcasters to apply the policy 
statement to unlicensed micro radio broadcasts results in an 
increase of as much as 2000%, from the $1000 indicated in 
Public Notice 2049 to the "base forfeiture" of $20,000 alleged 
in the recent N.A.L. filed against micro radio broadcaster 
Steven Dunifer.  Such a result was plainly not contemplated by 
the authors of the Policy Statement.
		If the F.C.C. meant to change its procedures so 
drastically with regard to so-called "pirate" radio operations, 
it was required to so indicate in a manner that could be 
understood as clearly as Public Notice 2049.  After such a 
clear and unambiguous statement of policy as that contained in 
Public Notice 2049, the Policy Statement of 1991 cannot be said 
to provide reasonable or adequate notice that the policy was 
being changed.  There is a simple explanation:  The F.C.C. 
obviously did not intend the Policy Statement to supersede 
Public Notice 2049 with regard to unlicensed radio operation.  
		Furthermore, it is arbitrary and capricious for the 
F.C.C. to levy any fine against micro radio broadcasters with 
no opportunity for a hearing, no opportunity to meet with the 
F.C.C., no explanation of how one might legally continue 
broadcasting, and without proper consideration of the 
statutorily mandated factors for determining the amount of the 
fine. The alleged micro radio transmissions at 1/10th or less 
of the power emitted by the smallest licensed commercial 
broadcast, without commercial profit or motive, causing no 
interference whatsoever, by a private individual interested 
only in exercising his constitutional rights cannot logically 
warrant the type of penalty assessed against Dougan and other 
micro radio 
broadcasters by the F.C.C.
		In issuing their Notice of Apparent Liability 
(N.A.L.) to micro radio broadcasters, the F.C.C. has also 
recently relied upon the Policy Statement, Standards for 
Assessing Forfeitures  category "Failure to permit inspection."  
47 CFR §15.29(a) provides that:
Any equipment or device subject to the provisions of this 
part, together with any certificate, notice of 
registration or any technical data required to be kept on 
file by the operator, supplier or party responsible for 
compliance of the device shall be made available for 
inspection by a Commission Representative upon reasonable 
request.
		However, micro radio broadcasters are not permitted 
to hold an F.C.C. license which would subject them to any 
inspection requirements imposed by the Communications Act.  
Furthermore, the language of §15.29(a) is extremely broad.  The 
section applies to "any equipment or device subject to the 
provisions of this part." With respect to which equipment or 
devices are "subject to the provisions" of Part 15, §15.1 
states the following:

		Scope of this part.
	
(a) This part sets out the regulations under which an 
intentional, unintentional, or incidental radiator may be 
operated without an individual license."
		Thus, any "intentional, unintentional, or incidental 
radiator" that may legally be operated without an individual 
license is "subject to the provisions" of Part 15.
	Given the extremely broad scope of 47 CFR Part 15, it is 
clear that the base forfeiture amount set by the 1993 Policy 
Statement for "failure to permit an inspection" was not 
intended for application to violations of §15.29.  To hold 
otherwise leads to the absurd result that the F.C.C. could 
knock on any person’s door at 9:30 p.m. and demand immediate 
entry, with no warrant and without even an allegation or 
complaint of interference with commercial, navigational, or 
other licensed broadcasts, to "inspect" the person’s television 
set, cordless phone, or personal computer.  Refusal to permit 
entry would, under the N.A.L’s suggested construction of §15.29 
and the Policy Statement, subject the person to assessment of a 
substantial forfeiture. 
		A much more reasonable interpretation of the Policy 
Statement is that the category entitled "Failure to permit 
inspection" does not include violations of Part 15, but rather 
refers to licensed broadcast stations subject to the various 
inspection requirements upon which those licenses are 
conditioned.
		A fundamental precept of statutory construction is 
that statutory language cannot be interpreted in such a way as 
to lead to an absurd result.  The F.C.C.'s application of the 
Policy Statement in their N.A.L. to micro radio broadcasters 
involves just such a prohibited interpretation.
CONCLUSION
		The National Lawyers Guild Committee on Democratic 
Communications firmly believes that F.C.C. policies prohibiting 
all operation of micro radio broadcasting constitute prior 
restraint prohibited by the First Amendment, exceed the 
F.C.C.'s constitutional authority, and are inconsistent with 
the F.C.C.'s established guidelines and function.  The 
Committee on Democratic Communications also firmly believes 
that these same F.C.C. policies are violative of Due Process 
and Equal Protection in that they discriminate against the poor 
and minorities, and do not provide for adequate representation 
by counsel or opportunity for a hearing or administrative 
review.  In addition, the F.C.C.'s Notice of Apparent Liability 
issued to Mr. Dougan and other micro radio broadcasters is 
often defective in numerous regards.  The F.C.C. frequently 
fails to comply with its own procedures, the forfeiture imposed 
is grossly disproportionate, given these broadcasters' income 
and assets and the nature of the alleged offenses, and the 
forfeiture is often based upon unsubstantiated accusations with 
insufficient evidentiary support.  
		Based on the foregoing, the National Lawyers Guild 
Committee on Democratic Communications urges the Court to 
instruct the F.C.C. to draft new regulations allowing for the 
operation of micro radio stations where such operation serves 
the public interest, convenience and necessity as required 
pursuant to 47 CFR §73.201 et seq.  Until such time as these 
new regulations are drafted and implemented, all F.C.C. 
procedures with respect to micro radio should be suspended.


Dated:				Respectfully submitted,

						NATIONAL LAWYERS GUILD
						COMMITTEE ON DEMOCRATIC COMMUNICATIONS



						________________________________
						LUKE HIKEN
						Staff Attorney

 It is important to note that the 100 watt minimum is a regulatory creation of the F.C.C.  The F.C.C.'s decision 
was justifiably criticized shortly after implementation in Note, Educational FM Radio - the Failure of Reform, 34 
Fed. Com. L.J. 432 (1982).  Nothing in the Communications Act (47 U.S.C.  151 et. seq.), on its face, prohibits 
micro radio broadcasting.  To the extent that the F.C.C.'s regulations have effectively banned micro radio, the 
regulations are in conflict with the statutory framework and must be set aside.
 In the Matter of Steven P. Dunifer, NAL/Acct. No. 315SF0050; SF-93-1355.
 Quotes are from the "Forfeiture Order" in In the Matter of Steven P. 
Dunifer (attached hereto and marked as exhibit "A"), at pages 3, 6.
 47 C.F.R. §§ 73.211 et. seq., 73.511.
 The base forfeiture amount determined by the F.C.C. in this case is $17,500.  47 U.S.C. §503(b) and 47 C.F.R. 
§1.80 set a statutory maximum of $10,000 for violations by non-licensees who are not common carriers.
 8 FCC Rcd 6215 (1993) (hereinafter "Policy Statement").

[--- Unable To Translate Graphic ---]
[--- Unable To Translate Graphic ---]
[--- Unable To Translate Graphic ---]


	1

	2

	3

	4

	5

	6

	7

	8

	9

	10

	11

	12

	13

	14

	15

	16

	17

	18

	19

	20

	21

	22

	23

	24

	25

	26

	27

	28




