                    





                         NOTICE


    *********************************************************    

       

                         NOTICE


   *********************************************************


This document was originally prepared in Word Perfect.  

If the original document contained--

                    *  Footnotes
                    *  Boldface & Italics

--this information  is missing in this version

The document format (spacing, margins, tabs, etc.) is changed
too.

If you need the complete document, download the Word Perfect
version.

For information about downloading documents (FTP) see file
 how2ftp.

File  how2ftp (.txt & .wp) is in directory
\pub\Public_Notices\Miscellaneous.

*****************************************************************
********
$//Applications for Review, Stephen Paul Dunifer, FCC 95-333//$
$/ 1.115 Application for review/$
$/ 0.311 Authority Delegated 
$/ 0.314 Additional Authority delegated/$
$/ 500.503 Forfeitures in cases of rebates and offsets/$
                                Before the
                     FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
                          Washington, D.C. 20554

In the Matter of                     )
                                     )
Application for Review of            )
Stephen Paul Dunifer                 )
Berkeley, California                 )       NAL/Acct. No. 315SF0050 
                                     )

                       MEMORANDUM OPINION AND ORDER

Adopted:   August 1, 1995        Released:  August 2, 1995

By the Commission:
                              I. INTRODUCTION

     1.  In this Memorandum Opinion and Order we address an Application
for Review filed by Mr. Stephen Paul Dunifer pursuant to Section 1.115 of
the Commission's Rules, 47 C.F.R.  1.115.  Mr. Dunifer seeks review of a
Notice of Forfeiture in the amount of $20,000 assessed against him under
delegated authority by the Compliance and Information Bureau (CIB) of the
Federal Communications Commission (FCC), pursuant to Section 503 of the
Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the Act), 47 U.S.C. 503(b) and
Sections 0.311 and 0.314 of the Commission's rules, 47 C.F.R.  0.311,
0.314.  This forfeiture was imposed on Mr. Dunifer for broadcasting
without a license in violation of Section 301 of the Act, 47 U.S.C.  301. 
Stephen P. Dunifer, NAL/Acct. No. 315SF0050 (FOB Nov. 8, 1993) (Forfeiture
Order).  We grant the application for review in part, deny it in part, and
assess a forfeiture of $10,000. 

                              II. BACKGROUND

     2.  On April 25, 1993, from 9:00 p.m. to 10:10 p.m., Pacific Daylight
Time (PDT), an agent from the CIB's San Francisco field office monitored
transmissions on frequency 88.1 megahertz that emanated from a radio
station identifying itself as "Free Radio Berkeley."  The signals were
isolated by the agent to the vicinity of 6th Street and Allston Way in
Berkeley, California.  On May 2, 1993, agents from the San Francisco
office again monitored transmissions on frequency 88.1 megahertz by "Free
Radio Berkeley" station from 9:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. (PDT).  Using
close-in direction finding techniques, the agents located the source of
the transmission as a dipole antenna at an apartment at 809B Allston Way,
Berkeley, California.  See Forfeiture Order, at 1, 4. 

     3.  The agents remained outside the apartment and measured the
strength of the transmission signals.  The measured field strength, 630
uV/m at 700 meters, exceeded the maximum authorized field strength for
non-licensed transmitters, which is 250 uV/m at 3 meters.  See 47 C.F.R. 
15.239(b), Forfeiture Order, at 2.  In addition, transmission of the
signals measured in the instant case comported with the technical
characteristics of signals on the FM frequency band.  Any operator
transmitting on this band must be licensed.  See 47 U.S.C.  301, 309. 

     4.  Under Section 303(n) of the Communications Act, 47 U.S.C. 
303(n), radio installations associated with a radio station must be made
available for inspection by a Commission representative upon reasonable
request.  At 9:55 p.m. (PDT) on May 2, 1993, one of the agents approached
the residence from which the transmissions were originating and attempted
to inspect the radio station that was in operation.  A man who Commission
investigators stopped as he left his residence, and who the investigators
later identified as Stephen Paul Dunifer, refused to allow inspection and
claimed ignorance of any radio station. 
   
     5.  A subsequent search of Commission records indicated that Mr.
Dunifer has no license to operate an FM radio station.  Forfeiture Order,
at 2.  On June 1, 1993, the CIB San Francisco field office issued a Notice
of Apparent Liability (NAL) to Mr. Dunifer.  After evaluating Mr.
Dunifer's response, the CIB San Francisco field office issued him a Notice
of Forfeiture (NOF).  Mr. Dunifer then filed the instant Application for
Review. 



                              III. DISCUSSION

     6.  In his Application for Review, Mr. Dunifer contends that the
Commission's broadcast rules violate his constitutional right of free
speech under the First Amendment, U.S. Const. amend. I, violate the Due
Process and Equal Protection Clauses of the Constitution, U.S. Const.
amend. XIV,  1, and violate international treaties such as the United
Nations Declaration of Human Rights.  With respect to the instant case, he
contends that the Commission's forfeiture action violates the Commerce
Clause of the United States Constitution, U.S. Const. art. I,  8, cl. 3,
and that the Commission's action assessing the forfeiture failed to meet
established procedural requirements, and violated his Fifth and Sixth
Amendment rights, U.S. Const. amends. V, VI;  in addition, Mr. Dunifer
contends that the $20,000 forfeiture is excessive.  At the outset, we turn
our attention to Mr. Dunifer's argument that the Commission's broadcast
rules violate the United States Constitution and international treaties. 

     7.  Mr. Dunifer challenges the licensing system established in
Section 301 of the Communications Act.  He argues that the Commission's
rules, which do not provide for the licensing of stand-alone audio
broadcast stations under 100 watts, operate as an unduly restrictive,
total ban against low-power broadcasting, and thus contravene the First
Amendment right of free speech.  In support of his argument, Mr. Dunifer
defines low power broadcasting as a transmitter operating with a power of
10 watts or less.  Application for Review, at 4.  Mr. Dunifer then argues
that the Commission has failed to establish that the regulations at issue
are the least restrictive means to further a substantial state interest. 
Application for Review, at 7.  To illustrate his argument, Mr. Dunifer
points to Canada's regulatory scheme which, he claims, establishes
procedures for low power broadcasting. 

     8.  For the reasons that follow, we reject Mr. Dunifer's argument
that the Commission's rules abridge an asserted First Amendment right of
free speech.  Mr. Dunifer's constitutional arguments directly challenge
the 60-plus-year statutory approach to the licensing of broadcast
transmissions.  By statute, Congress designed a licensing system which
requires anyone who wishes to broadcast to submit a "written application"
to the Commission with the information required by Section 308 of the
Communications Act, 47 U.S.C.  308, and the Commission's implementing
regulations, and which prohibits operation of a radio station without a
license granted by the Commission.  47 U.S.C.  301.  One of the principal
reasons for requiring an FCC license to broadcast is to prevent
interference with broadcast signals so that such signals can be received
by the public.  In the absence of a system requiring a license before
broadcasting can commence, it is not clear how interference conflicts
would be resolved.  At the very least, however, these conflicts would have
to be resolved in almost all, if not all, cases after the interference has
occurred.  This approach would be costly, disruptive, inefficient, and
directly contrary to the express will of Congress.  Moreover, the United
States Supreme Court has held repeatedly that there is no constitutional
right to use radio facilities without a license and that the FCC has
authority to regulate the radio spectrum.  See Red Lion Broadcasting Co.
v. FCC, 395 U.S. 367, 388 (1969) ("Where there are substantially more
individuals who want to broadcast than there are frequencies to allocate,
it is idle to posit an unabridgeable First Amendment right to broadcast
comparable to the right of every individual to speak, write or publish");
National Broadcasting Co. v. United States, 319 U.S. 190, 227 (1943) ("The
right of free speech does not include . . . the right to use the
facilities of radio without a license").  See also Turner Broadcasting
System, Inc. v. FCC, 114 S. Ct. 2445, 2456-57 (1994) ("The scarcity of
broadcast frequencies . . . required the establishment of some regulatory
mechanism to divide the electromagnetic spectrum and assign specific
frequencies to particular broadcasters"). 

     9.  Given that the requirement for a license is thus clearly
constitutional, if Mr. Dunifer believes it would be unconstitutional for
the FCC to deny him a license, he should have, consistent with the
Communications Act, asked for a license, along with a request for a waiver
of the relevant rules limiting low power FM service.  If such a request
were denied, he could appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C.
Circuit pursuant to 47 U.S.C.  402(b)(1).  See WAIT Radio v. FCC, 418
F.2d 1153 (D.C. Cir. 1969) (FCC must consider waiver request of applicant
who makes a nonfrivolous First Amendment claim); Turro v. FCC, 859 F.2d
1498 (D.C. Cir. 1988) (Court reviews and rejects a First Amendment
challenge to an FCC decision refusing to waive its rules prohibiting low
power FM translator stations from originating local programming). 
Alternatively, if Mr. Dunifer believes the FCC's existing low power FM
rules are unconstitutional, he could have filed a petition for rulemaking
pursuant to 47 C.F.R.  1.401.  If this request were denied, he could have
filed a petition for review in a court of appeals pursuant to 47 U.S.C. 
402(a).  See Quincy Cable TV, Inc. v. FCC, 768 F.2d 1434 (D.C. Cir. 1985),
cert. denied, 476 U.S. 1169 (1986) (FCC denied a petition for rulemaking
to repeal certain rules and court of appeals, in reviewing FCC's order,
held rules unconstitutional). 

     10.  In any event, Mr. Dunifer's argument that the Commission's rules
limiting licenses for low power FM services violate the First Amendment is
unavailing.  Indeed, the D.C. Circuit has already upheld these rules under
the First Amendment.  See Turro v. FCC, 859 F.2d at 1500 n. 2.  The
Commission's technical rules and regulations which, inter alia, impose
requirements on the power levels of stand-alone radio stations, are not
content-based.  As such, they need only be a reasonable means of promoting
the statute's public interest standard in order to survive a First
Amendment challenge.  FCC v. National Citizens Committee for Broadcasting,
436 U.S. 775, 802 (1978).  Even if this case did involve content-based
rules, it is well established that strict scrutiny would not apply.  At
most, intermediate scrutiny would apply.  See FCC v. League of Women
Voters of California, 468 U.S. 364, 380-381 (1984); Red Lion Broadcasting
Co. v. FCC, 395 U.S. at 387-388.  For the reasons stated below, the
Commission's Rules are reasonable and would be sustained under the
intermediate scrutiny test. 

     11.  At issue in this case is the Commission's statutory objective of
ensuring a "fair, efficient, and equitable distribution of radio service"
in the United States.  See 47 U.S.C.  307(b), and related sections of the
Act.  The Commission's rules pertaining to low power broadcast services
are reasonably related to this permissible statutory objective and are
designed to allow the most efficient use of the spectrum.  Contrary to Mr.
Dunifer's argument, the Commission's rules do not prohibit all low power
services.  For example, the Commission's rules provide for FM translator
stations and booster stations which transmit at powers well below the 100
watt minimum established for primary broadcast stations.  47 C.F.R. Part
74, Subpart L.  These rules establish technical operating requirements and
licensing procedures for these low power facilities. 

     12.  Moreover, the Commission's rulemaking proceedings reflect the
Commission's efforts to examine the issue of low power broadcasting in
light of the public interest.  In particular, in the proceeding that
increased the minimum operating power of non-commercial educational
broadcast stations to 100 watts, the Commission discussed and weighed
several competing public interest claims.  In this notice and comment rule
making proceeding, the Commission considered the public's interest in
greater access to broadcast service and the more efficient use of the
spectrum, and also considered the particular interest of rural or distant
communities in obtaining access to noncommercial, educational programming. 
The Commission balanced these considerations against the potential
increased interference to other services, and specifically to TV Channel
6.  The Commission's public interest determination to provide for
increased power for these facilities was based on its goal of providing,
on a nation-wide basis, a stable, efficient, and diverse radio
communications service.  The Commission arrived at its decision only after
considering issues pertaining to a proposed assignment table for
noncommercial stations, varying hours of service, the nature of
educational FM stations, co-location of FM stations, revised TV receiver
standards, use of TV receiver interference filters, use of vertical
antenna polarization, and alternate programs for interference prediction. 

     13.  More recently, the Commission considered at length the issue of
local program origination authority for FM translators, which, if
approved, would have effectively established a low power FM broadcast
service.  Amendment of Part 74 of the Commission's Rules Concerning FM
Translator Stations, (Report and Order) 5 FCC Rcd 7212 (1990), recon.
denied, 8 FCC Rcd 5093 (1993).  After considering the arguments raised by
the proponents of program origination, we concluded that "we should not
authorize program origination for FM translators."  The Commission
explained: 

     In view of our commitment to provide FM radio . . .      
     service in a manner that promotes program diversity
     while enhancing the incentives for efficient broadcast
     station development, we believe it is desirable to
     hold constant the existing relationship between FM       
     broadcast stations and translator service.

Report and Order, 5 FCC Rcd at 7219  48.  On reconsideration, the
Commission again explained why it prohibits program origination by FM
translators.  We reiterated that "the proper role of FM translators is to
provide secondary service to areas where direct reception of signals from
FM broadcast stations is unsatisfactory due to distance or intervening
terrain obstructions."  8 FCC Rcd at 5097  27.  The Commission stressed
that it "remain[s] committed to providing FM radio broadcast service in a
manner that promotes program diversity while enhancing the incentives for
efficient full-service broadcast station development."  Id.  And, we said
that, "it is necessary to distinguish between the services provided by low
cost translators and FM radio broadcast stations due to our preference to
provide service through more efficient radio broadcast stations."  Id. at
 28.  Thus, it is clear that the Commission has examined the issue of
providing a low power FM service and has afforded an opportunity for
public comment in this matter.  Our decision not to establish this service
was based on the record developed in that proceeding and Mr. Dunifer has
not presented any evidence to challenge the reasonableness of our
determination. 

     14.  In this regard, a low power station could not co-exist with a
nearby high power station; the interference received would be too
destructive.  However, at the edge of the high power station's protected
service contour, where its signal is weakened by distance, a low power
station could operate because the interference received by the low power
station would be tolerable for a secondary operation.  But this is
unacceptable from a public interest standpoint because the low power
station would cause objectionable interference to the reception by the
audience of the primary station's signal.  Such interference to the
primary station could be difficult to identify and correct, and would
serve to lower the quality of the FM broadcasting service.  Moreover, all
broadcast stations must maintain their signals on their assigned center
frequency within their assigned frequency bands.  Unauthorized low power
transmitters which are typically used by unlicensed radio operators do not
meet minimum operating standards for stability and signal purity. 
Inevitably some of them will generate spurious emissions that will cause
interference but will be difficult to locate. 

     15.  The Commission, through rule making proceedings, has developed a
licensing system that serves a wide range of conditions and a licensing
system that is adaptable to changing circumstances, but avoids the
extremes in permissible power.  The Commission, therefore, does not allow
low power FM radio broadcasting because it is an inefficient use of the
spectrum nor do we permit the highest power that the technology could
achieve because that would reduce the number of stations and,
consequently, the diversity of voices.  Absent appropriate technical rules
and licensing requirements, broadcast speech would be unintelligible to
listeners, and the Commission's goal of promoting diversity of voices
would be undermined.  In particular, we do not authorize low power FM
radio broadcast stations because they cannot adequately serve communities
and mobile audiences, and because they would preclude the establishment of
more efficient, stable, full powered stations.  Conversely, we have put
maximum limits on the size of stations so as to promote a diversity of
voices.  Mr. Dunifer has presented no petition or argument to persuade us
that our rules should be changed, let alone that they are
unconstitutional. 
   
     16.  FM broadcasting is a service based on protected service
contours.  A proposed new station or one which seeks to modify its current
facilities must ensure both that it will not cause interference to the
service of other stations, and that it will not receive interference
within its defined service area.  In FM broadcasting, the biggest
constraint on the numbers and types of stations that can be authorized is
interference from stations operating on the same channel.  Interference to
and from stations operating on first, second, and third adjacent channels
is also a constraint but has greater impact on the location of a station
than on the total number that can operate in a region. 

     17.  Thus, if within a given region, we seek to authorize as many
co-channel stations as possible, only a portion of a region will receive
service of a satisfactory quality, and the remainder of the region will be
covered by multiple interfering signals.  The ratio of service area to
interference area is not a constant.  Because of the way radio signals
propagate, and the way service and interference are determined, the
proportion of the region receiving service would be greater if higher
powered stations were established.  Permitting low power facilities, as
Mr. Dunifer recommends, would lead to a larger number of stations but less
overall service.  Simply put, full power broadcast facilities are more
spectrally efficient. 

     18.  In addition to general concerns about spectrum efficiency, there
is the matter of preclusion.  Under this principle, the presence of one
station at a particular site prohibits the establishment of other stations
on the same or adjacent channels in that general area in order to avoid
destructive interference.  A simple example shows how preclusion and
service are related.  A 10 watt station with a 100 meter antenna has a
service radius of 5.9 kilometers and a service area of 109 square
kilometers.  To protect this hypothetical low power station from
interference by a co-channel Class A FM station operating at 6 kilowatts,
we would need to preclude the establishment of that Class A station within
a distance of 92.6 kilometers from the transmitter for the low power
station.  In contrast, one Class A station would preclude another
co-channel Class A station within a distance of 115 kilometers.  A Class A
station, however, operating at 6 kilowatts with a 100 meter antenna has a
service radius of 28.3 kilometers and a service area of 2,516 square
kilometers.  Therefore, while the preclusive effect of a Class A station
is 24 percent greater than the 10 watt station (115 kilometers divided by
92.6 kilometers), the service radius of a Class A station is almost 500%
greater than the smaller station (28.3 kilometers divided by 5.9
kilometers).  Although the preclusive effect of a station increases with
power, as we would expect, the service radius (and area) increases at a
much faster rate.  If we treat preclusion as a cost and service as a
benefit, the cost/benefit ratio improves with power; but the ratio is very
poor for low powered stations. 
     
     19.  As noted before, Mr. Dunifer contends that Canada's scheme for
the provision of low power services demonstrates that it is possible to
design rules that are less restrictive than the Commission's current
rules.  In his pleadings, Mr. Dunifer contends that low power broadcasting
should be permitted absent transmissions that cause interference to
licensed or navigational broadcasts.  See Application for Review, at iv. 
At the outset, we note that the Canadian scheme provides no support for a
claim that low power broadcast services should generally be permissible
without first obtaining a license.  Like the United States, Canada does
license most broadcast facilities, including its low power broadcast
services.  Our examination of the Canadian regulatory scheme reveals that
most low power FM stations are licensed and closely regulated by the
Department of Communications and Canadian Radio- Television and
Telecommunications Commission (CRTC).  See Public Notice CRTC 1993- 95. 
Violations of the licensing rules can result in sanctions and penalties,
including contempt charges. Id.  Moreover, the Canadian low power services
(which include rebroadcasting; community radio in rural or remote areas;
travel services; and temporary broadcast facilities for work camps,
student services, and special events) are similar to those provided for in
the United States under Parts 15, 73 and 74 of the Commission's rules and
under other sections of the Commission's rules and of the Communications
Act (e.g., FM translators, low power traveler's advisory stations, Class A
FM broadcast stations, and FM noncommercial educational stations). 

     20.  To the extent that the Canadian licensing rules allow some low
power services that are not permitted under our rules, there are vast and
critical differences between the two countries that justify our decision
to have a more restrictive policy.  Specifically, the United States has
over 6900 conventional FM stations whereas Canada has only 334
conventional FM broadcast stations.  The most heavily used frequency in
Canada -- 92.1 megahertz -- supports eight stations; the United States has
139 stations on the same frequency.  Broadcasting Yearbook, Vol. I, pp.
B-556, B-577 (1995 ed.).  Thus, while Canada can allow low power stations
even in urban areas, spectrum efficiency considerations create different
obstacles for low power services in the United States. 

     21.  In arguing that the Commission's rules are constitutionally
invalid, Mr. Dunifer further asserts that the Commission has exceeded any
authority to regulate interstate communications under the Commerce Clause
of the Constitution.  He argues that, although Section 301(d) of the Act
authorizes the Commission to regulate radio communications within one
state as well as between states, the statute must be interpreted and
applied in a manner consistent with constitutional limitations.  In
particular Mr. Dunifer claims that, because there has been no showing that
his transmissions caused or may cause harmful interference, the Commission
cannot prohibit his unlicensed transmissions. 

     22.  This is a fundamentally erroneous view of the regulatory system
for broadcasting as established in the Communications Act and interpreted
by the Supreme Court.  Section 301 of the Act specifically prohibits the
transmission of radio communications without a license from one place in a
state either to "another place in the same State," (emphasis added), or to
"any other State," Section 301(b).  These provisions make no reference to
any requirement for a showing with regard to harmful interference before
they can be enforced.  Section 301(d) similarly makes clear the
applicability of the radio licensing requirement without the necessity for
a showing of interference as a result of the radio transmission at issue. 
The requirement for a license in order to broadcast has been upheld by the
Supreme Court as a proper exercise of the constitutional power of Congress
over commerce.  National Broadcasting Co. v. United States, 319 U.S. at
209-217 ("Regulation of radio was as vital to its development as traffic
control was to the development of the automobile.  * * * The facilities of
radio are not large enough to accommodate all who wish to use them"); FCC
v. League of Women Voters of California, 468 U.S. at 377 ("The fundamental
distinguishing characteristic of the new medium of broadcasting . . . is
that [b]roadcast frequencies are a scarce resource [that] must be
portioned out among applicants").  There is no support whatever in these
or any other Supreme Court decisions for Mr. Dunifer's view that the
licensing requirement in Section 301 of the Communications Act cannot be
enforced unless there is a specific showing that the unlicensed radio
transmissions caused or may cause harmful interference.  The present
licensing scheme is intended to facilitate broadcasting by protecting the
service areas of those licensed by the Commission to broadcast.  Otherwise
the potential for chaos on the airwaves would severely undermine the
ability of others to use the radio spectrum.  See National Broadcasting
Co. v. United States, 319 U.S. at 209-217. 

     23.  We also note Mr. Dunifer's argument that the Commission's
prohibition against low power broadcasting denies minorities and the poor
the opportunity to be licensed because they are financially unable to
operate a full-power 100 watt station.  Therefore, Mr. Dunifer contends
that the Commission's rules in this area violate the Equal Protection
clause of the Constitution.  As the Supreme Court has recognized, however,
the standard provided in the Communications Act for the licensing of radio
stations is "the public interest, convenience, or necessity."  National
Broadcasting Co. v. United States, 319 U.S. at 227.  There is no
constitutional right to be granted a license when it would not be in the
public interest for the license to be granted.  Id.  The Communications
Act does not define the term "public interest, convenience and necessity"
but instead leaves it to the Commission "as the expert body which Congress
has charged to carry out its legislative policy,"  FCC v. Pottsville
Broadcasting Co, 309 U.S. 134, 138 (1940), to exercise its discretion in
determining where the public interest lies.  As previously discussed, the
Commission in exercising its discretion has concluded that the public
interest would not be served by licensing a low power FM broadcast
service. 

     24.  Mr. Dunifer also claims that the Commission's rules with respect
to low power broadcasts violate certain international treaties.  In
particular, Mr. Dunifer argues that the Commission's rules violate the
rights of low power radio broadcasters and their listeners under the U.N.
Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and
Political Rights, and the American Convention on Human Rights.  None of
the treaties or agreements listed by Mr. Dunifer, however, gives him a
right to operate without a license or authorization from the Commission. 
Nor do any of these treaties or agreements compel the Commission to revise
its rules to permit the licensing of low power FM stations that would
broadcast their own originated programming. 
     
     25.  We now turn to Mr. Dunifer's arguments that the forfeiture
action in the instant case is procedurally flawed.  Mr. Dunifer contends
that the Commission failed to adhere to its own procedures when it did not
first send him a citation or a warning giving notice of the violations and
an opportunity for a personal interview as required by Section 503(b)(5)
of the Act, 47 U.S.C.  503(b)(5), and Section 1.80(d) of the Commission's
rules, 47 C.F.R.  1.80(d).  In particular, Mr. Dunifer argues that
because the FCC does not issue any licenses to operate low power radio
broadcast facilities, he was not "engaging in activities for which a
license, permit, certificate, or other authorization is required" and
thus, as a non-licensee, he was entitled to a warning. 

     26.  Mr. Dunifer is mistaken.  Although Section 503(b) of the Act
does require issuance of citations prior to forfeitures in certain
circumstances, it specifically excludes individuals that are "engaging in
activities for which a license, permit, certificate or other form of
authorization is required." 47 U.S.C.  503(b).  By transmitting on a
frequency reserved for licensed broadcast services, Mr. Dunifer engaged in
broadcasting, an activity for which a license is required.  47 U.S.C. 
301.  Therefore, he was not entitled to receive a warning prior to the
issuance of the forfeiture. 

     27.  Mr. Dunifer's constitutional claims include an argument that the
FCC's exercise of its forfeiture authority violates his due process rights
because he was not given an opportunity for a hearing.  Further, Mr.
Dunifer argues that his Fifth and Sixth Amendment rights are adversely
affected because the violation subjects him to a civil penalty and
possible criminal sanctions and he cannot afford to retain counsel. 
Specifically, Mr. Dunifer states: "[i]n the extremely specialized area of
telecommunications law, even if competent counsel could be found, their
fees place their services well beyond the reach of the average person." 
Response to Notice of Apparent Liability, at 11. 

     28.  We disagree with Mr. Dunifer that his due process or Fifth or
Sixth Amendment rights were violated.  Contrary to Mr. Dunifer's
arguments, Sections 503 and 504 of the Communications Act, 47 U.S.C. 
503, 504, provide safeguards which satisfy due process requirements. 
Specifically, the Notice of Apparent Liability (NAL) must specify the
rules that are alleged to be violated, the facts upon which the charge
against the named violator is based, and the date upon which the alleged
violation occurred.  Additionally, the party is given an opportunity to
respond to the NAL and to have a trial de novo. 47 U.S.C.  503(b)(5),
504(a),(b).  See Pleasant Broadcasting Co. v. FCC, 564 F.2d 496 (D.C. Cir.
1977). 
 As to Mr. Dunifer's argument that his right to effective assistance of
counsel has been abridged, we note that the forfeiture proceeding in the
instant case is not a criminal proceeding, and thus, the right to
appointed counsel is inapplicable.  In any event, the record in this case
clearly shows that Mr. Dunifer has been able to secure legal
representation before the Commission and in related court proceedings. 
 
     29.  Finally, Mr. Dunifer argues that the Bureau erred when it used
the Commission's Forfeiture Policy Statement to calculate the forfeiture
in this case.  Mr. Dunifer asserts that the Forfeiture Policy Statement
does not address unlicensed operations.  Thus, he argues, the Bureau
instead should have relied on a 1990 Public Notice regarding unlicensed
operations that sets the forfeiture amount for these types of violations
at no more than $1,000.  Assuming arguendo, that the Commission's
Forfeiture Policy Statement applies in the instant case, Mr. Dunifer
contends that he is neither a broadcast licensee nor a permittee or
applicant, and that the only category he fits is "other."  He further
contends that the $20,000 fine for two one-hour low power broadcasts by
someone with no prior FCC rule violations is too severe, because such a
high forfeiture is intended for commercial broadcasters. 

     30.  The Commission's Forfeiture Policy Statement, used to assess the
forfeiture amount, was vacated by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C.
Circuit in USTA v. FCC, 28 F.3d 1232 (D.C. Cir. 1994).  Therefore, it is
not necessary to address the merits of Mr. Dunifer's argument regarding
the use of the Forfeiture Policy Statement.  Moreover, we are not
persuaded that the forfeiture at issue in this case should be assessed
under the 1990 Public Notice.  The Public Notice issued by the
Commission's staff clearly stated that it applied to "routine" cases of
unauthorized broadcast operations.  Unlicensed Radio Operations, 67 RR 2d
619.  As discussed below, see para. 32, infra, this is not a routine case. 
Accordingly, we will assess the forfeiture amount against Mr. Dunifer
under the statutory forfeiture guidelines set forth in Section 503(b)(2)
of the Act, 47 U.S.C.  503(b)(2). 

     31.  Section 503 (b)(2)(C) imposes a forfeiture maximum of $10,000 a
day per violation for violations by parties other than common carriers and
broadcast station licensees, permittees, applicants, and others seeking
similar Commission authorization, as well as cable operators.  47 U.S.C. 
503 (b)(2)(C).  In determining a forfeiture penalty, the Commission must
consider "the nature, circumstances, extent, and gravity of the violation
and, with respect to the violator, the degree of culpability, any history
of prior offenses, ability to pay, and such other matters as justice may
require."  47 U.S.C.  503 (b)(2)(D). 

     32.  The violation at issue in this case is serious and intentional. 
As stated in the Forfeiture Order, Mr. Dunifer is "a recalcitrant
individual who decide[d] to willfully operate a radio transmitter without
the required [FCC] authorization, as a protest against the regulatory
power of the Commission, refuse[d] the opportunity to allow Commission
investigators to inspect the equipment found in use, refuse[d] to discuss
the matter with investigators, . . . [and] g[a]ve a false statement to
them . . . . [concerning his identity]."  Id. at 5.  Moreover, Mr. Dunifer
has not made any good faith efforts to come into compliance with the
Communications Act or the Commission's rules even after being warned that
his unlicensed radio transmissions are illegal.  Id.  After evaluating the
facts and circumstances in this case under the statutory forfeiture
guidelines, see para. 30, supra, we find that the statutory maximum of
$10,000 is an appropriate forfeiture amount.  Because the NAL only cited
Mr. Dunifer for one violation of Section 301, the forfeiture is assessed
at $10,000, rather than the $20,000 in the NAL. 
     
     33.  Finally, Mr. Dunifer claims that he is unable to pay the
forfeiture initially assessed.  Because he has submitted no documentation,
such as financial records, to support this request for further mitigation,
we are unable to evaluate the merits of his request.  See 47 U.S.C. 
503(b)(2)(D); 47 C.F.R.  1.80(f)(3).  See also Group Six Communications,
Inc., 8 FCC Rcd 3111  4 (1993); Metro Media Broadcasting, Inc., 8 FCC Rcd
323  4-5 (1992). 


     34.  In summary, upon review of the arguments raised in the
Application for Review, and our independent review of the Notice of
Apparent Liability and Forfeiture Order, we grant the Application for
Review with respect to the request for a reduction of the forfeiture
amount, and deny review in all other respects. 

                           IV. ORDERING CLAUSES

     35.  Accordingly, IT IS ORDERED that, pursuant to Section 1.115 of
the Commission's Rules, 47 C.F.R.  1.115, the Application for Review of
Stephen Paul Dunifer is GRANTED in part and DENIED in all other respects. 

     36.  IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, pursuant to Section 503(b) of the
Act, 47 U.S.C.  503(b), and Section 1.80 of the Commission's Rules, 47
C.F.R.  1.80, Stephen Paul Dunifer IS LIABLE FOR A MONETARY FORFEITURE in
the amount of $10,000 for operating an unauthorized broadcast station in
violation of Section 301 of the Communications Act.  The amount specified
was determined after consideration of the factors set forth in Section
503(b) of the Communications Act. 

     37.  IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, pursuant to Section 1.80(f)(3) of
the Commission's rules, 47 C.F.R.  1.80(f)(3), Stephen Paul Dunifer
shall, within thirty (30) days of the release of this ORDER, pay the full
amount of the forfeiture.  Forfeitures shall be paid by check or money
order payable to the Federal Communications Commission.  The remittance
should be marked "NAL/Acct. No. 315SF0050" and mailed to the following
address: 

                Federal Communications Commission
                Post Office Box 73482
                Chicago, IL 60673-7482

     38.  IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that a copy of this Order shall be sent to
Stephen Paul Dunifer and his counsel by Certified Mail, Return Receipt
Requested. 


     FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION



     
     William F. Caton
     Acting Secretary
