I.	INTERNATIONAL LAW, AND IN PARTICULAR, THE U.N. DECLARATION 
OF HUMAN RIGHTS AND THE INTERNATIONAL COVENANT ON CIVIL AND 
POLITICAL RIGHTS, PROHIBIT THE COMMISSION'S INTERFERENCE 
WITH MBANNA KANTAKO'S MICRO RADIO BROADCASTS, WHICH VIOLATES 
THE RIGHT TO COMMUNICATE OF KANTAKO AND HIS COMMUNITY.

	Given the facts surrounding the operation of Black 
Liberation Radio, prohibiting Kantako's one watt radio station 
appears to violate his right to freedom of expression under 
international law.  The Declaration of Human Rights and 
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights establish 
the principle under International law that every person is 
entitled to participate in and develop the cultural life of his 
or her community.  

	The long standing rule of construction first enunciated by 
Chief Justice Marshall is that "an act of congress ought never to 
be construed to violate the law of nations, if any other possible 
construction remains...."  The Charming Betsy, 6 U.S. (2 Cranch) 
34, 67 (1804), quoted in Lauritzen v. Larsen, 345 U.S. 571, 578.  
Thus, in The Nereide, 13 U.S. (9 Cranch) 388, 422 (1815) Chief 
Justice Marshall found that in the absence of congressional 
enactment, United States courts are "bound by the law of nations, 
which is part of the law of the land."  Id.  Similarly, in The 
Paquete Habana, 175 U.S. 677 (1900) the Court stated that 
"[i]nternational law is part of our law, and must be ascertained 
and administered by the courts of justice of appropriate 
jurisdiction, as often as questions of right depending upon it 
are duly presented for their determination."  Id. at 299.  

	International law with regard to this right is set forth as 
follows:

A.	THE INTERNATIONAL COVENANT ON CIVIL AND POLITICAL RIGHTS:  
ARTICLE 19
	The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights was 
ratified by the United States Senate on April 2, 1992.  This 
document was deposited at the United Nations by President Bush on 
June 8, 1992, and becomes effective on September 8, 1992.  As of 
that date, this Human Rights document will have the force of law 
in the United States.  Article 19 of the Covenant was based on 
Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.   
Article 19 states that 

     1.	Everyone shall have the right to hold opinions without 
interference.

     2.	Everyone shall have the right to freedom of expression; 
this shall include freedom to seek, receive and impart 
information and ideas of all kinds, regardless of 
frontiers, either orally, in writing or in print, in 
the form of art, or through other media of his choice.

     3.	The exercise of the rights provided for in paragraph 2 
of this article carries with it special duties and 
responsibilities.  It may therefore be subject to 
certain restrictions, but these shall only be such as 
are provided by law and are necessary:
 
    a.	For respect of the rights or reputations of 
others;

    b.	For the protection of national security or of 
public order, or of public health and morals.
     
	In the relatively few opinions that it has rendered on 
Article 19 interpretation, the Human Rights Committee has 
somewhat inconsistently applied its provisions.   In one case 
involving the arrest of an individual for his political 
activities, the Committee determined that the,

"bare information from the State party that he was charged 
with subversive association and an attempt to undermine the 
morale of the armed forces is not in itself sufficient, 
without details of the alleged charges and copies of the 
court proceedings....[to support a defense] that the arrest, 
detention and trial of Grille Motta was justified on any of 
the grounds mentioned in Article 19(3) of the Covenant."
U.N. Human Rights Committee, Communication No. 11/1977, paragraph 
17.

	This appears to indicate that Article 19 requires the 
government to establish, and substantiate if necessary, its 
justification for restricting the right to freedom of expression.

	However, in another opinion, the deference afforded a 
national government's restriction is self-evident.  In that case, 
the Committee decided that the Finnish Broadcasting Corporation 
was well within its rights to disallow the broadcasting of a 
television program concerning homosexuality.   The Committee 
stated that " a certain margin of discretion must be accorded to 
the responsible national authorities."   The restriction was 
permitted based on the rationale that, "[a]s far as radio and TV 
programs are concerned, the audience cannot be controlled. In 
particular, harmful effects on minors cannot be excluded."   

	These cases indicate that the scope of the "margin of 
discretion" accorded states under Article 19 is still uncertain.  
Therefore, analogy to the jurisprudence of other tribunals is 
required to determine if Kantako's right to freedom of expression 
has been violated. 

	Significantly, Article 27 of the International Covenant on 
Civil and Political Rights also adds the following:
In those States in which ethnic, religious or linguistic 
minorities exist, persons belonging to such minorities shall 
not be denied the right, in community with the other members 
of their group, to enjoy their own culture, to profess and 
practice their own religion, or to use their own language.
	
(...Cite recent Human Rights Advocate intervention 
memorandum)

B.  AMERICAN CONVENTION ON HUMAN RIGHTS:  ARTICLE 13

	Besides Article 19 from the International Covenant on Civil 
and Political Rights, Article 13 of the American Convention on 
Human Rights states  that,
    1.	Everyone has the right to freedom of thought and 
expression.  This right includes freedom to seek, 
receive, and impart information and ideas of all kinds 
regardless of frontiers, either orally, in writing, in 
print, in the form of art, or through any other medium 
of one's choice.

    2.	The exercise of the right provided for in the foregoing 
paragraph shall not be subject to prior censorship but 
shall be subject to subsequent imposition of liability, 
which shall be expressly established by law and be 
necessary in order to ensure:
      	    a.	respect for the rights or reputations of 
others; or

    b.	the protection of national security, public order, 
or public health or morals.

    3.	The right of expression may not be restricted by 
indirect methods or means, such as the abuse of 
government or private controls over newsprint, radio 
broadcasting frequencies, or implements or equipment 
used in the dissemination of information, or by any 
other means tending to impede the communication and 
circulation of ideas and opinions.

    4.	Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 above, 
public entertainments may be subject by law to prior 
censorship, for the sole purpose of regulating access 
to them for the moral protection of childhood and 
adolescence.

    5.	Any propaganda for war and any advocacy of national, 
racial, or religious hatred that constitute incitements 
to lawless violence or any other similar illegal action 
against any person or group of persons on any grounds 
including those of race, colour, religion, language, or 
national origin shall be considered as offenses 
punishable by law.

	Article 13 of the American Convention on Human Rights, 
entered into force July 18, 1978, has been interpreted by the 
Inter-American Court as follows:
A comparison of Article 13 with the relevant provisions of 
the European Convention (Article 10) and the Covenant 
(Article 19) indicates clearly that the guarantees contained 
in the American Convention regarding freedom of expression 
were designed to be more generous and to reduce to a bare 
minimum restrictions impeding the free circulation of ideas.
See Advisory Opinion of 13 November 1985 on Compulsory Membership 
Of Journalists' Association, 8 EHRR 165, paragraph 50.  Another 
difference between the European and American Conventions is the 
list of valid exceptions which allow a government to interfere 
with the right to freedom of expression.  The Inter-American 
convention lists only two:  "those that are necessary to ensure: 
a. respect for the rights and reputation of others; or b. the 
protection of national security, public order, or public health 
and morals." 

	Nevertheless, interpretation of the two Articles is 
relatively similar.  Like the European Court's interpretation of 
the right to freedom of expression, the Inter-American Court has 
stated

The just demands of democracy must consequently guide 
the interpretation of the Convention and, in 
particular, the interpretation of those provisions  
that bear a critical relationship to the preservation 
and functioning of democratic institutions.
Advisory Opinion of 13 November 1985 on Compulsory Membership of 
Journalists' Association, 8 EHRR 165, paragraph 44.

	Although there are no cases directly on point, Article 13 
can best be understood in the Court's application of its 
provisions as they relate to the factual setting presented in its 
Advisory Opinion on Compulsory Membership of Journalists' 
Association.  Advisory Opinion of 13 November 1985, 8 EHRR 165.  
In that case, a foreign journalist was prohibited and indeed 
fined under a local criminal statute in Costa Rica for his 
professional activities.  The government regulation required that 
journalists become members of a professional organization in 
order to perform certain activities associated with the media.  
Certain criteria were required to become a member of the 
organization including graduation form a state university with a 
particular type of degree.  The Court found this to be a 
violation of Article 13 because it "denie[d] any person access to 
the full use of the news media as a means of expressing opinions 
or imparting information."  Id.

	The Court made this final determination after several 
findings regarding the interpretation of Article 13. Among these 
is the conclusion that freedom of expression "includes and cannot 
be separated from the right to use whatever medium is deemed 
appropriate to impart ideas and to have them reach as wide an 
audience as possible."  Id., paragraph 31.
     
	Furthermore, the Inter-American Court requires that any 
governmental "restrictions imposed under Article 13(2) on freedom 
of expression depend upon a showing that the restrictions are 
required by a compelling state interest" and that if there exist 
"various options to achieve this objective, that which least 
restricts the right protected must be selected."  Id., paragraph 
46 (emphasis added); Note that the Inter-American Court likened 
certain language in the Sunday Times case of the European Court 
to this same principle.	

	In the case involving compulsory membership of journalists, 
the Court determined that the ends which the government sought to 
achieve through its regulation, namely the encouragement of 
professional ethics and responsibility, and the maintenance of 
journalists independence in relation to their employer, simply 
did not fall within those authorized by the Convention. 

	In determining whether there has been an interference with 
the right to freedom of expression, the Court has concluded that 
the broad scope of the language of the Convention does not 
necessitate that there be actual governmental intervention.  An 
example of this principle was given by the Court: 

This might be the case...when due to the existence of 
monopolies or oligopolies in the ownership of 
communications media, there are established in practice 
means tending to impede the communication and   
circulation of ideas and opinions.
Id., paragraph 56.

	In Kantako's case, the cost of complying with FCC 
regulations insures that the radio communications media is really 
not available to all citizens who wish to express their ideas, 
but only to those who can afford it.  The justification for these 
regulations is outdated and unnecessary, and not the "least 
restrictive means" to reach the government's objective.  Further, 
the regulations directly impede the dissemination of information 
and expression of ideas of an entire class of society--the poor.  
This issue must also be examined through the eyes of exposing 
racism, as the net effect of such wealth-based classification is 
to limit drastically the number of media outlets owned by non-
whites.  Such a wealth and race-based impact demonstrates that 
the U.S. government's implementation of the FCC regulations, 
lacking as they do the necessary rationale and narrowly tailored 
means, constitutes a violation of the right to freedom of 
expression as interpreted by the Inter-American Court.  

C.  EUROPEAN CONVENTION ON HUMAN RIGHTS:  ARTICLE 10
Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights  states 
that:

     1.	Everyone has the right to freedom of expression.  This 
right shall include freedom to hold opinions and to 
receive and impart information and ideas without 
interference by public authority and regardless of 
frontiers.  This article shall not prevent States from 
requiring the licensing of broadcasting, television or 
cinema enterprises.

     2.	The exercise of these freedoms, since it carries with 
it duties and responsibilities, may be subject to such 
formalities, conditions, restrictions or penalties as 
are prescribed by law and are necessary in a democratic 
society, in the interests of national security, 
territorial integrity or public safety, for the 
prevention of disorder or crime, for the protection of 
health and morals, for the protection of the reputation 
or rights of others, for preventing the disclosure of 
information received in confidence, or for maintaining 
the authority and impartiality of the judiciary.
	The European Court of Human Rights stated in its Handyside 
judgment that freedom of expression constitutes one of the 
essential foundations of a democratic society.  Handyside case, 
Judgment of 7 December, 1976, Series A No. 24, paragraph 49.   
Furthermore, it was noted that the application of Article 10 
should extend to information which "offend[s], shock[s], or 
disturb[s]the State or any other sector of the population."  Id.  
In essence, this case provides the basis from which all future 
cases involving freedom of expression must be interpreted.  
Freedom of expression remains at the very core of democratic 
societies.

	As is the case in U.S. Constitutional Law, political speech 
is provided with the greatest amount of protection under Article 
10 of the Convention.  The Sunday Times v. The United Kingdom, 
Judgment of 26 April 1979, Series A No. 30, paragraph 65.  This 
principle was enunciated in the case of The Sunday Times v. The 
United Kingdom in which the Court stated that it is essential for 
the mass media
              
to impart information and ideas concerning matters...of 
public interest.  Not only do the media have the task 
of imparting such information and ideas: the public 
also has the right to receive them.
Id.  The Court continued by stating that its supervision was not 
to be limited "to ascertaining whether a respondent State 
exercised its discretion reasonably, carefully and in good 
faith."  Id., paragraph 59  The Court held that it      

is faced not with a choice between two conflicting 
principles, but with a principle of freedom of 
expression that is subject to a number of exceptions 
that must be narrowly interpreted.
Id., paragraph 65. 	

	The Sunday Times case declared that the House of Lords was 
in violation of Article 10 of the Convention when it attempted to 
restrain the newspaper from reporting a story regarding the drug, 
"thalidomide".  The Sunday Times wished to publish articles which 
detailed the history of the drug, its testing, its marketing and 
its manufacture.  The interest in the story developed because the 
drug was found to have caused severe birth defects in the 
children of mothers who had taken the drug during their 
pregnancies.  At the time of publication, litigation was pending 
against the distributors and manufacturers of the drug.  A 
violation of Article 10 was found to exist because the Court felt 
that the matter was of "public interest".

	Although The Sunday Times case involves the print media, 
certain parallels can be drawn to Black Liberation Radio.  As has 
been previously stated, Black Liberation Radio (then WTRA) was 
initially formed to fill the void which Kantako felt existed in 
local media broadcast as it related to the reporting of matters 
of "public interest" to his community.  Any regulation of his 
activities which might fall within one of the enumerated 
exceptions should be narrowly construed in light of the 
protection afforded the right to freedom of expression by 
international law, especially because the speech at issue was 
"political speech," e.g., the broadcast which motivated the 
F.C.C. action criticized police behavior.

	International case law which applies directly to radio 
broadcasting is very limited.  Therefore, it is necessary to 
analyze the principles of the other cases in light of this 
consideration.  

	In the Autronic AG case, Judgment of 22 May 1990, Series A 
No. 178, involving the retransmission of television signals from 
a Soviet satellite, the Court maintained that the application of 
Article 10 could not be confined to the content of information.  
It stated that the protection of Article 10 must necessarily 
extend to the means of transmission or reception because "any 
interference with the means necessarily interferes with the right 
to receive and impart information."  Id. at paragraph 47.
In this particular case, the Swiss government was found to be in 
violation of Article 10 in its attempt to regulate 
retransmission.  Autronic AG clearly demonstrates the notion that 
the "margin of appreciation" extended to a State's decision-
making entities must be considered on a case by case basis.  
Here, The Swiss Government's characterization of the 
retransmission as a telecommunication as opposed to a broadcast 
was deemed an ineffective and unacceptable as a means for 
prohibiting the project.  The Court stated that: 

Where, as in the instant case, there has been an 
interference with the exercise of the rights and 
freedoms guaranteed in paragraph 1 of Article 10, the 
supervision must be strict, because of the rights in 
question; the importance of these rights has been 
stressed by the Court many times.  The  necessity for 
restricting them must be convincingly established.
Id., paragraph 61.  Thus, absolute deference is not accorded to 
the Contracting States. 

	The Court did overrule the Commission's finding of an 
Article 10 violation in Radio Groppera v. Switzerland, Judgment 
of 28 March 1990, Series A No. 173.  However, the facts in Radio 
Groppera may be distinguished from those surrounding the 
operation of Black Liberation Radio.  The case of Radio Groppera 
involved the cable retransmission of radio signals from an 
unlicensed station in Italy.  The programming content consisted 
predominantly of popular music.  The Court arrived at its 
decision by balancing the interest of protecting the 
international communication order against the rights of the 
Italian broadcaster.

	Ultimately, it was decided that the Swiss government had not 
overstepped the "margin of appreciation".  The Court 
characterized the Italian applicant as a Swiss station operating 
from outside the borders.  This was done, according to the Court, 
in an effort to bypass the statutory requirements regulating 
Swiss radio stations.  In arriving at this determination, the 
Court did make an important declaration about the interpretation 
of Article 10 as a whole and the third sentence of paragraph one 
of Article 10 in particular.  The Court stated that the intended 
purpose of the third sentence was

to make it clear that States are permitted to control 
by a licensing system the way in which broadcasting is 
organized in their territories, particularly in its 
technical aspects.  It does not, however, provide that 
licensing measures shall not otherwise be subject to 
the requirements of paragraph 2, for that would lead to 
a result contrary to the object and purpose of Article 
10 taken as a whole.
Id., paragraph 62.	This statement solidifies the principle that 
the "margin of appreciation" afforded the Contracting States is 
not absolute.  It would seem that a state must have a valid 
reason for restricting the right to freedom of expression; one 
that is "necessary in a democratic society" in light of the 
conditions set forth in paragraph 2.

	This interpretation of Article 10(2) is extremely relevant 
to the operation of Black Liberation Radio.  In light of this 
interpretation, the validity of prohibiting radio stations with 
less than 100 watts must be seriously questioned.  This is 
particularly true when considering the significant technological 
advancements made in satellite and cable in recent years.  Many 
of the F.C.C. regulations were instituted due to the finite 
number of frequencies which once existed.  Here, the governments 
interest in Mbanna Kantako's activities appears more closely 
linked to the content of his broadcasts and the remarks made 
regarding police brutality than to any legitimate interest set 
forth in Article 10.

	In sum, a Contracting State must satisfy the following test 
in order to justify their interference with the right to freedom 
of expression:

          - it is "prescribed by law";
          - it is in pursuance of one of the legitimate aims
            listed in Article 10(2);
          - it is "necessary in a democratic society", having
            regard to the "duties and responsibilities".
Anthony Lester, Freedom of Expression, p 38-39 (unpublished 
article), (date unknown)	

	The first element of the test is rather self-evident while 
the second requires some interpretation.  The second paragraph of 
Article 10 sets forth a laundry list of justifications which a 
Contracting State may claim in order to validly interfere with 
the right to freedom of expression.  In the Sunday Times case, 
the court noted that these phrases (ie..in the interest of 
national security, territorial integrity etc..) should be 
interpreted in light of the entire Convention and not simply as a 
matter of domestic law.  The Sunday Times v. The United Kingdom, 
Judgment of 26 April 1979, Series A No. 30, paragraph 65.  
Therefore, the reason for the interference must be based on some 
legitimate rationale enumerated in the Article.  Id., 57.  The 
interference may not be based on some arbitrary governmental 
reasoning.

	This element of the test is important to the analysis 
regarding Black Liberation Radio.  Kantako had been operating his 
radio station for close to two years when the government shut him 
down.  If the action taken against him had genuinely been aimed 
at one of the factors listed in Article 10(2), it is more likely 
than not that government officials would have taken action much 
sooner.  It is simply too much of a coincidence that the radio 
station was shut down following Kantako's statements on the air 
concerning police brutality in his neighborhood.

	[NOTE:  One case that does seem to go against Black 
Liberation Radio is that of X v. The United Kingdom, 16 D & R 190 
(1978).  In this case, the Court stated that the valid rationale 
for an interference with the right to freedom of expression 
(listed in Article 10(2) as the "prevention of disorder and 
crime") includes those who advertise or otherwise promote pirate 
radio stations.  Id.  But here, it would be unfair to 
characterize Black Liberation Radio as a pirate radio station in 
that the government has no legitimate justification for 
curtailing his right to freedom of expression.]

	The third element of the test, the so-called "necessity" 
test has received much attention from the Court.  On several 
occasions, the Court has remarked that the word "necessary" 
should be interpreted to mean that the Contracting State must 
establish a "pressing social need" in order to account for the 
interference with the right guaranteed by Article 10.  Handyside 
case, Judgment of 7 December 1976, Series A No. 24, paragraph 48-
50; The Sunday Times v. The United Kingdom, Judgment of 26 April 
1979, Series A No. 30, paragraph 62.  As previously stated, 
another factor which must be balanced against the "necessity" is 
the public interest in the matter.  The Sunday Times v. The 
United Kingdom, Judgement of 26 April 1979, Series A No. 30, 
paragraph 65-66.

	In the present case, it is difficult for us to determine 
what, if any, is the possible pressing social need for 
prohibiting the airing of a radio program from a one watt 
station.  In fact, it is more likely that Kantako's radio station 
fulfills a pressing social need by providing a forum in which the 
concerns of his community can be adequately addressed.  There is 
a public interest in being an informed citizen so that one can 
properly participate in community activities.  
  
	As noted earlier, another factor to be considered is the 
scope of the "duties and responsibilities" associated with the 
expression.  The nature and scope of these "duties and 
responsibilities" must be derived from the context of the given 
factual scenario.  Handyside v. U.K., Judgment of 7 December 
1976, Series A No. 24, paragraph 49.   For example, in the case 
of Engel v. The Netherlands, the armed forces were involved.  
Engel v. The Netherlands, Judgment of 8 June 1976, Series A No. 
22, paragraph 100.  Therefore, the applicant had a much more 
difficult time overcoming the government's justification for the 
interference.  Here, the government's justification for 
interference is more difficult to prove.  Black Liberation Radio 
operated for close to two years without interruption, and without 
interfering with other broadcast signals.  In addition, the 
station served the needs of the community, thereby advancing the 
public interest.  Because the scope of these "duties and 
responsibilities" here differs significantly from that in Engel, 
government interference with Black Liberation Radio cannot be 
easily justified.
D.  CONCLUSION

	In general, the interpretation of the right to freedom of 
expression varies somewhat among the international tribunals and 
the Convention being interpreted.  This right has been proclaimed 
by States over and over in international instruments, supporting 
the argument that the right is part of customary international 
law.  When the claimants of this right are members of a 
demonstrably under-represented body such as African Americans, 
the avenue of investigating human rights violations based on race 
and wealth discrimination is opened.  While there are some cases 
that can be used against those seeking to exercise their rights, 
these cases may be legally distinguished from the facts 
surrounding the operation of Black Liberation Radio and others of 
its kind.  

	Again, a European state must have a valid reason for 
restricting the right to freedom of expression, one that is 
"necessary in a democratic society" in light of Article 10.  The 
Contracting State must also satisfy the following test in order 
to justify their interference with the right to freedom of 
expression.  The interference must be:  prescribed by law; in 
pursuance of the legitimate aims listed in Article 10; necessary 
in a democratic society, having regard to the duties and 
responsibilities of such a society; interpreted in light of the 
entire Convention and not simply based on domestic law.

	The strength of Kantako's claim here rests on the fact that 
he broadcast for over two years before the government attempted 
to terminate his broadcasts and that the prohibition came after 
his discussion of police brutality in his community.  As a 
result, the very real possibility exists for securing 
international resolutions condemning the United States for its 
practices and a call to amend the actions that limit the rights 
of peoples to speak and to listen.  

  International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, entered 
into force March 23, 1976.
   As with the Inter-American Court of Human rights discussed below, the 
number of decisions rendered by the Human Rights Committee pertaining to 
Article 19 is so far very limited.  Most of those opinions relate to the 
persecution of individuals for their political view points.  For now, this 
makes the interpretation of Article 19 somewhat difficult with respect to 
micro radio.  One of the best means of interpretation may be a comparison with 
Article 13 of the Inter-American Convention.  An examination of both Article 
13 of the Inter-American Court of Human Rights and Article 19 of the 
International Covenant of Civil and Political Rights will demonstrate the 
close alignment of provisions regarding government "necessity".  
In its Advisory Opinion on Compulsory Membership of Journalists' 
Association, 8 EHRR 165, paragraph 45 (13 Nov. 1985), the Inter-
American Court stated that Article 19 served as a model, at least 
in part, for Article 13 of the Inter-American Convention.
  See U.N. Human rights Committee Communication No. 61/1979.
  Id., paragraph 10.3.
  Id., paragraph 10.4.
  American Convention on Human Rights, entered into force July 
18, 1978.
  American Convention on Human Rights, entered into force July 
18, 1978.
  European Convention on Human Rights, Text amended according to 
the provisions of Protocol No.3 which entered into force on 21 
September 1970, and of Protocol No. 5 which entered into force on 
20 December 1971.
  The case involved the prosecution of a publisher of a book 
entitled "The Little Red Schoolbook", which suggested that the 
young people for whom the book was written should maintain a 
liberal sexual attitude.  The Court deemed that there had been no 
violation of Article 10 because of the wide margin of 
appreciation to which the Contracting States are entitled.

