
Louis N. Hiken
Attorney at Law
One Sansome Street, Suite 900
San Francisco, California 94104

Tel:  (415) 705-6460							  Fax: (415) 705-6444

	
							
								December 2, 1993



The Secretary
Federal Communications Commission
Washington, DC 20554

Ref: In the Matter of Stephen P. Dunifer; NAL/Acct. No.  
	315SF0050; SF-93-1355.

Dear Madam or Sir,

	We enclose our response to the Forfeiture Order issued 
to our client, Stephen P. Dunifer, released by the F.C.C. on 
November 8, 1993. 
	There appears to be a conflict in the regulations which 
govern review of a Forfeiture Order.  The only option for 
obtaining review mentioned by the Order itself is a Petition 
for Reconsideration.   Yet the Order goes on to cite both 
Section 1.106 of the Commission’s Rules and 47 C.F.R. 
§1.115.  
	Section  1.106 of the Commission’s rules parallels 47 
C.F.R. § 1.106, which governs the submission of Petitions 
for Reconsideration.  47 C.F.R. §1.115, however, governs the 
submission of Applications for Review of actions taken 
pursuant to delegated authority.   These options represent 
substantively different courses of action.  The most 
significant distinction regards which government agency 
shall consider the appeal: An Application for Review must be 
acted upon by the Commission.   A Petition for 
Reconsideration, however, may be acted upon by either the 
Commission, or by the designated authority.   
	The plain language of 47 C.F.R. §1.80(i) states that. 
"After issuance of a forfeiture order, any request [that the 
Commission or its designee remit or reduce the forfeiture] 
shall be submitted as a petition for reconsideration 
pursuant to §1.106."  However, the equally plain language of 
47 C.F.R. §1.115(a) states that "Any person aggrieved by any 
action taken pursuant to delegated authority may file an 
application requesting review of that action by the 
Commission."   Consistent with the latter is 47 C.F.R. 
§1.104(b), which provides that "Any person desiring 
Commission consideration of a final action taken pursuant to 
delegated authority shall file either a petition for 
reconsideration or an application for review (but not both). 
. ."  The issuance of the Forfeiture Order in this case was 
clearly pursuant to delegated authority.   
	In light of the foregoing, this response is hereby 
submitted as an Application for Review of action taken 
pursuant to delegated authority, as provided by 47 C.F.R. 
§1.115.  In compliance with the Forfeiture Order, a copy of 
this Application for Review has been sent to the Field 
Operations Bureau.   We note, however, that 47 C.F.R. 
§0.311(a)(2) specifically requires the Chief, Field 
Operations Bureau, to refer this matter to the Commission en 
banc for disposition.  
	Please contact us at the above address, phone or fax if 
we can provide further information or if you have any 
questions regarding this submission.


								Sincerely,


												
								Louis N. Hiken,
								Attorney for Stephen 
								P. Dunifer


LOUIS N. HIKEN,  SBN 45337
Attorney at Law
One Sansome Street, Suite 900
San Francisco, California 94104
Telephone:  (415)705-6460
Fax:  (415) 705-6444







BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20554






IN THE MATTER OF			)
					)	
STEPHEN PAUL DUNIFER		)	NAL/ACCT. NO.: 315SF0050
BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA		)		SF-93-1355
					)




APPLICATION FOR REVIEW OF ACTION TAKEN PURSUANT TO DELEGATED AUTHORIT


TABLE OF CONTENTS

Summary of the Filing	iii

Questions Presented	1

1.	Whether the Commission’s rules, as presently 
formulated and applied, constitute a complete 
and absolute prohibition of micro radio.	1

2.	Whether the Commission’s complete and absolute 
prohibition of micro radio violates the First 
Amendment.	1

3.	Whether the Commission intended for its 
"Policy Statement" to be applied to micro 
radio broadcasters.	1

4.	Whether, if the Commission did intend that its 
"Policy Statement" be applied to micro radio 
broadcasters, the "Policy Statement" was 
properly applied in this case.	1

a)	Is the dramatic increase in the 
proportion of the "upward adjustment" in 
the NAL to that in the Forfeiture Order 
permissible?	2

b)	Is the Forfeiture Order’s complete 
deletion of the "downward adjustment" 
contained in the NAL permissible?	2

5.	Whether a sufficient factual basis exists for 
the Forfeiture Order issued to Applicant 
Dunifer.	2

6.	Whether the exception in 47 U.S.C. §503(b)(5) 
for persons "engaging in activities for which 
a license, permit certificate, or other 
authorization is required" applies to micro 
radio broadcasts.	2

7.	Whether the Commission’s complete prohibition 
of micro radio exceeds the Federal 
Government’s authority under the Commerce 
Clause.	2

8.	Whether the Commission’s complete prohibition 
of micro radio violates international law.	2

9.	Whether the Forfeiture Order in this case 
violates Due Process and Equal Protection.	3

Respects in Which the Action Taken by the Designated 
Authority Should be Changed	3

Form of Relief Sought	4

Argument	4

I. 	The Commission’s rules, as presently 
formulated and applied, constitute a complete 
and absolute prohibition of micro radio.	4

II.	The Commission’s Complete And Absolute 
Prohibition Of Micro Radio Violates The First 
Amendment.	7

III.	The F.C.C.'s "Policy Statement, Standards For 
Assessing Forfeitures" Does Not Apply To 
Unlicensed Micro Radio Broadcasts.	9

IV.	Even If The Policy Statement Standards Are 
Applicable to Micro Radio, The F.C.C. Has 
Improperly Calculated The Forfeiture Amount.	12

V.	The Forfeiture Is Based Upon Unsubstantiated 
Accusations With Insufficient Evidentiary 
Support.	16

VI.	The Exception In 47 U.S.C. §503(B)(5) For 
Persons "Engaging In Activities For Which A 
License, Permit Certificate, Or Other 
Authorization Is Required" Does Not Apply To 
Micro Radio Broadcasts.	17

VII.	(a)	The Commission’s Complete Prohibition Of 
Micro Radio Exceeds The Federal 
Government’s Authority Under The Commerce 
Clause	17
	
	(b)	The Commission’s complete prohibition of 
micro radio  Violates Micro Radio 
Broadcasters' And Their Listeners' Right 
To Communicate Under The U.N. Declaration 
Of Human Rights, The International 
Covenant On Civil And Political Rights, 
And The American Convention On Human 
Rights	17

	(c)	The Forfeiture Order In This Case 
Violates Due Process And Equal Protection	17

CONCLUSION	1



SUMMARY OF THE FILING  

	This is an application for review of action taken 
pursuant to delegated authority, filed in accordance with 47 
C.F.R. §1.115.  Applicant Stephen P. Dunifer seeks 
Commission review of the Forfeiture Order dated November 8, 
1993, issued by the Field Operations Bureau, assessing 
forfeiture liability in the amount of $20,000.  	
	Applicant Dunifer is accused of transmitting two low 
power (less than 10 watts) FM broadcasts without an F.C.C. 
license.  The alleged broadcasts caused no interference with 
licensed, navigational or any other signal.  The 
outrageously excessive forfeiture amount was determined by 
improper application of the F.C.C.’s Policy Statement, 
Standards for Assessing Forfeitures, 6 FCC Rcd. 4695 (1991) 
and the 1993 Policy Statement, Standards for Assessing 
Forfeitures, 8 FCC Rcd. 6215 (1993). 
	At issue in this case are several critically important 
constitutional, legal and policy issues that must be 
resolved by the Commission.  Current F.C.C. regulations and 
policies enforcing those regulations have resulted in a 
complete and absolute prohibition of micro radio 
broadcasting.  While Applicant Dunifer stands accused of 
failing to obtain an F.C.C. license prior to engaging in 
such broadcasts, in fact no such license is available under 
the current regulatory framework as enforced by the 
Commission.  The problem is not that micro radio 
broadcasters are refusing to comply with F.C.C. licensing 
procedures.  Rather, the fundamental problem is that the 
F.C.C. has not provided procedures by which micro radio 
broadcasters can become licensed or authorized.  Instead, 
the F.C.C. is applying severe administrative and criminal 
sanctions, intended for application to large-scale, 
commercial operators, to micro radio broadcasters with the 
goal of completely precluding all such broadcasts. The very 
notion of assessing a $20,000 forfeiture against Applicant 
Dunifer, an individual with no prior F.C.C. violations, 
accused of transmitting two low-power, non-commercial 
broadcasts of approximately 1 hour duration, is ludicrous.   
	The current ban of all micro radio broadcasting 
violates the First Amendment.  In addition, the Forfeiture 
Order in this case is procedurally flawed and calls for a 
forfeiture amount that is grossly disproportionate to the 
alleged violations and which exceeds the maximum limits set 
by 47 U.S.C. 503(b)(2)(C).  
	Applicant Dunifer seeks rescission of the Forfeiture 
Order and F.C.C. authorization to engage in unlicensed 10 
watt or lower FM micro radio broadcasts that create no 
interference with licensed or navigational broadcasts


APPLICATION FOR REVIEW OF ACTION TAKEN PURSUANT TO DELEGATED AUTHORITY

	In accordance with 47 C.F.R. §1.115, Stephen P. Dunifer 
hereby requests review by the Commission of the following 
action taken pursuant to delegated authority: the issuance 
of the Forfeiture Order assessing liability for a monetary 
forfeiture in the amount of $20,000, released November 8, 
1993 by the Field Operations Bureau, and signed by Philip M. 
Kane, Engineer in Charge. 

QUESTIONS PRESENTED
	In accordance with 47 C.F.R. §1.115(b)(1), the 
following questions are presented for review:

1.	Whether the Commission’s rules, as presently formulated 
and applied, constitute a complete and absolute 
prohibition of micro radio.  The Forfeiture Order 
asserts that there is no such prohibition.  

2.	Whether the Commission’s complete and absolute 
prohibition of micro radio violates the First 
Amendment.  As noted above, The Forfeiture Order 
asserts that there is no complete prohibition of 
micro radio.  Beyond this denial, the Order refused 
to consider or address Applicant Dunifer’s First 
Amendment arguments.  
   
3.	Whether the Commission intended for its "Policy 
Statement" to be applied to micro radio broadcasters.  
The Forfeiture Order found that the "Policy Statement" 
was intended for application to micro radio 
broadcasters. 

4.	Whether, if the Commission did intend that its "Policy 
Statement" be applied to micro radio broadcasters, the 
"Policy Statement" was properly applied in this case.  
The Forfeiture Order applied the "Policy Statement" to 
this case differently than the manner in which it was 
applied by the NAL.  The determined forfeiture amount, 
however, was the same.  

a)	Is the dramatic increase in the proportion of 
the "upward adjustment" in the NAL to that in 
the Forfeiture Order permissible? 

b)	Is the Forfeiture Order’s complete deletion of 
the "downward adjustment" contained in the NAL 
permissible?
 
5.	Whether a sufficient factual basis exists for the 
Forfeiture Order issued to Applicant Dunifer.  The 
Forfeiture Order found sufficient factual bases. 

6.	Whether the exception in 47 U.S.C. §503(b)(5) for 
persons "engaging in activities for which a license, 
permit certificate, or other authorization is required" 
applies to micro radio broadcasts.  The Forfeiture Order 
found that the exception does apply to micro radio 
broadcasts. 


7.	Whether the Commission’s complete prohibition of micro 
radio exceeds the Federal Government’s authority under 
the Commerce Clause.  As noted above, The Forfeiture 
Order asserts that there is no complete prohibition of 
micro radio.  The Order further found that the 
Commission’s regulations as applied to micro radio 
broadcasts do not exceed the Federal Government’s 
authority under the Commerce Clause. 

8.	Whether the Commission’s complete prohibition of micro 
radio violates international law.  As noted above, The 
Forfeiture Order asserts that there is no complete 
prohibition of micro radio.  Beyond this denial, the 
Order refused to consider or address Applicant Dunifer’s 
international law arguments. 

9.	Whether the Forfeiture Order in this case violates Due 
Process and Equal Protection.  The Forfeiture Order 
found no violations of either Equal Protection or Due 
Process. 
											
FACTORS WARRANTING COMMISSION CONSIDERATION OF THE QUESTIONS PRESENTED 
	Each of the following factors, enunciated in 47 C.F.R. 
§ 1.115(2), warrant Commission consideration of the 
questions presented: The action taken pursuant to delegated 
authority is in conflict with the Commission’s own rules, 
the regulations codifying those rules, established 
Commission policy, and the United States Constitution; the 
action involves several questions of law or policy that have 
not previously been resolved by the Commission; the action 
involves application of a precedent or policy which should 
be overturned or reversed; the delegated authority made an 
erroneous finding as to an important fact, and; there have 
been several prejudicial procedural errors.

RESPECTS IN WHICH THE ACTION TAKEN BY THE DESIGNATED 
AUTHORITY SHOULD BE CHANGED
	The action taken by the designated authority should be 
changed in the following respects: The Forfeiture Order 
should be rescinded by the Commission, or, in the 
alternative, the amount should be reduced to an amount 
consistent with a correct application of F.C.C. procedures 
and commensurate with the fact that Applicant Dunifer is an 
indigent individual with no prior F.C.C. violations accused 
of responsibility for two non-commercial low-power 
broadcasts that created no actual interference.
 
FORM OF RELIEF SOUGHT
	Applicant Dunifer seeks the following relief from the 
Commission:  The Forfeiture Order should be rescinded, and 
Applicant Dunifer should be granted authorization to 
conduct, with no F.C.C. license, 10 watt or lower FM micro 
radio broadcasts that create no interference with licensed 
or navigational broadcasts.


ARGUMENT

I. 	The Commission’s rules, as presently formulated and 
applied, constitute a complete and absolute prohibition 
of micro radio.
	The F.C.C.'s current regulatory scheme completely 
prohibits micro radio broadcasters and their listeners from 
accessing the public airwaves.  The Forfeiture Order goes to 
great lengths to argue that its regulations do not in fact 
completely prohibit micro radio. 
	A careful analysis of the Forfeiture Order’s listed 
plethora of opportunities for micro radio broadcasting 
within the F.C.C.’s current regulatory framework reveals 
that there is, in fact, a complete prohibition of micro 
radio broadcasting.  The suggestions offered by the 
Commission break down to the following: 

1) 	Petition the Commission to change the current 
regulatory framework; 

2) 	Apply for a license to operate a 10 watt station 
above 92 MHz;

3) 	Broadcast as permitted under 47 C.F.R. 15.239(b);

4) 	Apply for a license to operate a Non-Commercial 
Educational FM Broadcast station under 47 C.F.R. §§ 
73.501 et. seq.  		

	Number 2 above is, in effect, the same as petitioning 
for a rule change, since the minimum power requirements for 
acquiring a license to operate above 92 MHz are 100 watts or 
a six kilometer reference distance.   Number 3 above is 
meaningless, since the field strength permitted by 
§15.239(b) is so low as to preclude any micro radio 
broadcast capable of being received beyond 1 or 2 blocks 
away from the transmitter.  The Commission’s suggestion that 
a 10 watt broadcast could comply with the field strength 
limitations imposed by §15.239(b) is misleading, at best. 
	Number 4 above is similarly misleading.  47 C.F.R. 
§73.511(a) explicitly provides that "No new Non-Commercial 
Educational station will be authorized with less power than 
minimum power requirements for commercial Class A 
facilities," that is, less than 100 watts.  While it may be 
true that no one is precluded under the current regulatory 
framework from applying for a license as the Commission 
suggests in number 4 above, it is also true that no such 
application can possibly be approved by the Commission under 
its current regulations.
	The deceptively long list provided by the Commission, 
then, boils down to "ask us to change our rules."  Given 
that there are absolutely no standards or limitations 
governing the Commission’s discretion in considering an 
application for a rule change or waiver, this "option" is 
meaningless.   It is well established in First Amendment 
jurisprudence that regulations which vest absolute or near 
absolute discretion in an agency to approve or deny 
exceptions to a generally applicable rule are 
unconstitutional.     
	The Forfeiture Order seems to suggest that Applicant 
Dunifer has somehow failed to exhaust his administrative 
remedies because he did not petition for a rule change under 
the A.P.A. If the FCC’s rules, as currently formulated and 
applied, completely prohibit micro radio, then the rules 
violate the First Amendment.  Citizens have no 
responsibility whatsoever to petition the F.C.C. to change 
unconstitutional regulations--rather, the F.C.C. is required 
to structure its regulatory framework so as to comply with 
the First Amendment.   
	Despite the Forfeiture Order’s protestations to the 
contrary, the F.C.C. is indeed obligated to modify its rules 
when the rules violate the Constitution; not to "accommodate 
Mr. Dunifer’s agenda,"  but rather to accommodate the First 
Amendment rights of Applicant Dunifer and all others 
similarly situated.  The F.C.C. must construct and enforce 
its regulatory framework in such a way as to safeguard the 
First Amendment right of free speech for all persons, 
regardless of their economic power.  By totally prohibiting 
low-power micro radio, the Commission has failed to comply 
with its congressional mandate to regulate the airwaves in 
the public interest, has exceeded the limits of the power 
conferred upon it by Congress, and is violating the 
constitutional rights of micro radio broadcasters and their 
listeners.


II.	The Commission’s Complete And Absolute Prohibition Of 
Micro Radio Violates The First Amendment. 
	It is well established that when First Amendment free 
speech rights in a traditional or designated public forum 
are impacted by government regulation, the government must 
establish that the contested regulations are the least 
restrictive means available to further a compelling state 
interest.  The absolute and complete ban of all micro radio 
broadcasting effected by the current regulatory scheme is 
obviously not the least restrictive means available to the 
government to satisfy the state interest in regulating the 
airwaves.  The government need look no further than to our 
immediate neighbors to the North for examples of much less 
restrictive means of addressing micro radio.
	Since 1978, Canada has licensed low power FM radio  
broadcasters in remote communities with a simple three-page 
application form.  The Canadian Radio-Television and 
Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) has recently modified 
its rules to permit such broadcasts even in urban areas, 
where frequency space is much more scarce.   Indeed, in a 
report on low power television, the F.C.C. itself attached 
as an appendix a copy of Canadian recommendations regarding 
the regulation of low power FM broadcasting.  These 
recommendations included the suggestion that application 
forms and required information be simple enough to allow for 
easy application by potential low power licensees.   Review 
of this F.C.C report and the attachments thereto reveals 
that the licensing and administrative requirements necessary 
to oversee operation of micro radio stations is not overly 
burdensome.  Indeed, these licensing forms reveal that micro 
radio can be easily regulated so as to prevent any risk of 
signal interference. 
	Further evidence of the less restrictive alternatives 
available to the Commission in this regard is available in 
the F.C.C.’s own history.  Until relatively recently, Non-
Commercial Educational FM broadcast stations could be 
licensed by the F.C.C. to broadcast with up to 10 watts of 
power. 
	The absolute ban on micro radio is a creation of the 
Commission that can be easily eliminated without 
detrimentally impacting the government’s interest in 
regulating the airwaves.  The ban therefore violates the 
First Amendment and must be rescinded.

III.	The F.C.C.'s "Policy Statement, Standards For Assessing 
Forfeitures" Does Not Apply To Unlicensed Micro Radio 
Broadcasts.III.	The F.C.C.s "Policy Statement, 
Standards For Assessing Forfeitures" Does Not Apply To 
Unlicensed Micro Radio Broadcasts.2 ;
	Applicant Dunifer presented argument in this regard in 
his Reply to the N.A.L., which is already before the 
Commission. 
	In response to this argument, the Forfeiture Order 
states:

"The reply goes on at great length about the Commission 
not being specific about "micro radio broadcasters" and 
how the pre-1991 Public Notice had set the penalty for 
unlicensed operation at $1000 and that any change was 
not valid because the Commission had not given notice 
to the public about the change in forfeiture penalty 
level.

There is no category of operation as "micro power 
broadcasting."  Unauthorized operation -- operation 
without blanket or specific authorization -- remains 
unauthorized operation in spite of its advocates’ and 
practitioners’ attempts to give it a cachet of 
respectability.

It is clear from the proceedings concerning the 1991 
and 1993 Policy Statements that it is within the 
Commission’s discretion to raise the "announced" level 
of penalty assessable for unlicensed operation from 
$1000 to $10,000, as long as this change is within the 
statutory maximum.  The "notice" was by issuance of the 
Policy Statements.  The 1991 Policy Statement did in 
fact supersede the 1990 Public Notice 2049 with regard 
to penalties for unlicensed operation."    

	The Forfeiture Order’s response misses the point.  The 
argument set out in the Reply is that the "Policy Statement" 
was not intended by the Commission to be applied to micro 
radio broadcasts, such that a single infraction would result 
in a forfeiture of $20,000 , rather than the $1000 amount 
set by the 1990 Public Notice.  Even setting aside for the 
moment the disingenuous manner in which the Forfeiture Order 
seeks to gloss over the obvious and significant mistake made 
in the N.A.L.’s determination of the "base forfeiture 
amount,"  the problem the Commission must address here 
remains:  Even if the "revised" method of determining the 
base forfeiture amount is used, to hold that the "Policy 
Statement" was meant by the Commission to supersede its 
policy announced in Public Notice 2049 requires the 
conclusion that the intention was to level an 800% increase 
in the fine for this offense.  This is vastly 
disproportionate to the other increases wrought by the 
"Policy Statement."  The fact that the Commission has the 
discretion to levy forfeitures up to the statutory maximum 
is irrelevant in this regard.  The very existence of the 
"Policy Statement" evinces the Commission’s intent to assess 
forfeitures below the statutory maximum.  The argument 
presented in the Reply is that the intent of the Commission 
was not to increase the forfeiture amount for these offenses 
by 800% or more, regardless of the Commission’s power to do 
so.  If the intent of the Commission was not to enact such a 
disproportionate increase, then the "Policy Statement" is 
not properly applied to these offenses.  The power of the 
Commission to charge up to the statutory maximum is 
irrelevant to ascertaining the Commission’s intent in 
enacting the "Policy Statement."
	Similarly off-mark are the Forfeiture Order’s comments 
regarding the fact that "there is no category of operation 
as ‘micro power broadcasting.’"  In the Reply to the N.A.L., 
Applicant Dunifer pointed out that there was no mention 
whatsoever of unlicensed broadcasts in the "Policy 
Statement" itself or in subsequent F.C.C. Orders in which 
the "Policy Statement" is discussed.   The point is that 
this lack of specific reference, given the repeated 
references to licensed broadcasts and licensees in these 
documents, and the specific reference in Public Notice 2049 
to unlicensed radio operation, supports the conclusion that 
the Commission did not intend the "Policy Statement" to 
apply to micro radio broadcasts, nor to supersede Public 
Notice 2049 in this regard.
	Finally, if the Commission were to hold that the 
"Policy Statement" was intended to apply to micro radio 
broadcasts as asserted by the Forfeiture Order, the 
substantial difference between the degree of specificity of 
the language in Public Notice 2049 and that in the "Policy 
Statement" renders the latter insufficient to notify the 
public of this significant change.  Without reasonably 
sufficient notice, imposition of the $20,000 forfeiture in 
this case violates Due Process. 

IV.	Even If The Policy Statement Standards Are Applicable 
to Micro Radio, The F.C.C. Has Improperly Calculated 
The Forfeiture Amount. 
	Applicant Dunifer presented argument in this regard in 
his Reply to the N.A.L., which is already before the 
Commission. 
  	In the Reply, Applicant Dunifer explained that even if 
the "Policy Statement" was intended for application to micro 
radio, the F.C.C. had improperly calculated the base 
forfeiture amount.  The Reply pointed out that it is clear 
from reading the N.A.L. that the  manner in which the 
Commission determined the $20,000 forfeiture amount was by 
reference to the category labeled "BC/CABLE."   The Reply 
pointed out that this was clearly erroneous, as Applicant 
Dunifer can not conceivably fall within the ambit of 47 
U.S.C. §503(b)(2)(A).   The Reply also pointed out that the 
base forfeiture amount assessed by the N.A.L. violated 47 
U.S.C. §503(b)(2) and 47 C.F.R. §1.80, since the statutory 
limit set by those sections for violators in the "Other" 
category is $10,000.   Finally, the Reply predicted that in 
response to this argument, the Commission would attempt to 
belatedly assert that the $20,000 forfeiture amount was 
based upon two violations rather than one.   As the Reply 
pointed out,

"While the N.A.L. does discuss two separate incidents, 
it is clear from reading the section of the N.A.L. 
(paragraph 12) which discusses the forfeiture amount 
that Mr. Dunifer's base forfeiture amount was 
determined by consulting the Policy Statement table 
entry for a single violation for "operation without 
authorization in broadcast services." (N.A.L., 
paragraph 12, at p. 2)  Had the F.C.C. correctly 
consulted the "OTHER" violator category, even for two 
offenses, the base forfeiture amount would have only 
been $16,000.  The only reasonable interpretation of 
paragraph 12 of the N.A.L. is that the F.C.C. based Mr. 
Dunifer's forfeiture amount  on a single violation for 
the "BC/Cable" category, and then adjusted the amount 
upward because there were multiple incidents alleged 
and these were considered ‘willful.’" 

	In perhaps the most egregious manipulation of F.C.C. 
procedure by the Commission staff to date in this case, the 
Forfeiture Order attempts to evade the N.A.L.’s obvious 
error in precisely the fashion predicted by Applicant 
Dunifer’s Reply.  At page four, the Forfeiture Order tacitly 
admits that the N.A.L. improperly calculated the base 
forfeiture amount, stating that, "The base amount for 
operation without authorization in services other than 
Broadcast, Cable or Common Carrier is $8,000."   The 
Forfeiture Order’s less-than candid mea culpa continues:  
"No matter how a "base amount" is determined, the Commission 
staff has the discretion to adjust it upwards and downwards 
within [the] statutory maximum upon articulable reason."   	
	The Forfeiture Order, then, admits, without really so 
stating, that the N.A.L. erred in calculating the base 
forfeiture amount, but then argues that the error really 
doesn’t matter, since the Commission has the authority to 
set the forfeiture at whatever limit it chooses, within the 
statutory limit.  Any fair reading of the N.A.L. cannot 
avoid the conclusion that the Commission staff based the 
forfeiture amount on one offense, and determined the amount 
by reference to the BC/CABLE category.  The staff then 
clearly adjusted the amount upward 100% due to the operation 
being "intentional," and then downward 100% "because Stephen 
P. Dunifer is an individual and has no history of past 
violation."   The Forfeiture Order, in a blatantly result-
oriented attempt to gloss over the error in the N.A.L. and 
arrive at the same $20,000 figure, after admitting that the 
base amount determined in the N.A.L. is fully $12,000 too 
high, completely discards the N.A.L.’s upward and downward 
mitigation analysis , and implicitly attempts to change the 
basis of the forfeiture from one offense to two.
	Even if the "Policy Statement" is to be applied in this 
case, the Commission should not permit this manipulation of 
the procedure by which the forfeiture amount is determined.  
The Commission staff already determined that the appropriate 
forfeiture amount in this case, after consideration of the 
upward and downward adjustment criteria, was equal to the 
Policy Statement’s "base amount."  Now, after being forced 
to acknowledge the N.A.L.’s calculation error, the 
Commission staff claims that the forfeiture amount should be 
150% above the base amount.  Nothing about the offense or 
the mitigation criteria has changed in the interim between 
issuance of the N.A.L. and the Forfeiture Order.  There is 
absolutely no basis for this increase, other than the 
Commission staff’s desire to hit Applicant Dunifer with the 
most severe fine within their power.   The amount assessed 
by the Forfeiture Order, however, goes beyond even this 
limitation.  Since the forfeiture here was clearly based 
upon only one offense , the forfeiture amount assessed 
violates even 47 U.S.C. §503(b)(2)(C). 
	The obvious difficulties encountered by the Commission 
staff in attempting to apply the "Policy Statement" to the 
activities alleged in this case underscore the fundamental 
problem here: the forfeiture amounts and analysis detailed 
in the "Policy Statement" were simply never intended for 
application to micro radio.  If any forfeiture at all is to 
be levied in this case, it cannot exceed the $1000 amount 
set out in Public Notice 2049. 

V.	The Forfeiture Is Based Upon Unsubstantiated 
Accusations With Insufficient Evidentiary Support.  
	 Applicant Dunifer presented argument in this regard in 
his Reply to the N.A.L., which is already before the 
Commission.   While the Forfeiture Order purports to 
respond to this argument, it fails to address the fact that 
even assuming, arguendo, that the voice recorded by the 
agents on one or both occasions is Applicant Dunifer's, this 
is insufficient to prove that Applicant Dunifer was the 
person broadcasting.  Broadcasters often employ pre-recorded 
tapes of programming, prepared off-the-air at some earlier 
date.  The F.C.C. has not brought forth any evidence which 
demonstrates that the transmissions received by the 
agent/investigators were "live" broadcasts.  The violation 
alleged in the N.A.L. is the transmission of radio signals 
without proper authority. Establishing the identity of the 
individual who actually transmitted the signals is therefore 
essential to sustaining the forfeiture order against 
Applicant Dunifer, regardless of whether it was Applicant 
Dunifer's voice being heard over the air.

VI.	The Exception In 47 U.S.C. §503(B)(5) For Persons 
"Engaging In Activities For Which A License, Permit 
Certificate, Or Other Authorization Is Required" Does 
Not Apply To Micro Radio Broadcasts.
	The F.C.C.’s failure to comply with the citation, 
notice, and opportunity for meeting provisions of 47 U.S.C. 
§503(b)(5) and 47 C.F.R. §1.80(d) renders the N.A.L. and 
subsequent Forfeiture Order in this case invalid.  Applicant 
Dunifer presented argument in this regard in his Reply to 
the N.A.L., which is already before the Commission. 

VII.	(a)	The Commission’s Complete Prohibition Of Micro 
Radio Exceeds The Federal Government’s Authority 
Under The Commerce Clause
	
(b)	The Commission’s complete prohibition of micro 
radio  Violates Micro Radio Broadcasters' And Their 
Listeners' Right To Communicate Under The U.N. 
Declaration Of Human Rights, The International 
Covenant On Civil And Political Rights, And The 
American Convention On Human Rights

(c)	The Forfeiture Order In This Case Violates Due 
Process And Equal Protection.
	Applicant Dunifer presented argument on each of these 
points in his Reply to the N.A.L., which is already before 
the Commission.   Counsel believes that these issues have 
been adequately briefed by Applicant Dunifer in these 
arguments which are already part of the record.  However, 
these arguments were largely ignored by the Commission’s 
staff in the Forfeiture Order.  Counsel would ask that the 
Commission provide a meaningful analysis and response to the 
significant questions raised by these arguments.

	CONCLUSION
	The Forfeiture Order issued to Applicant Dunifer is 
defective in numerous regards.  The F.C.C. has failed to 
comply with its own procedures.  The forfeiture imposed is 
grossly disproportionate, given Applicant Dunifer's income 
and assets and the nature of the alleged offenses.  The 
forfeiture is based upon unsubstantiated accusations with 
insufficient evidentiary support.  More importantly, the 
F.C.C. policies upon which the forfeiture is based 
constitute prior restraint prohibited by the First 
Amendment, and violate Due Process and Equal Protection in 
that they discriminate against the poor and minorities, and 
do not provide for adequate representation of counsel or 
opportunity for a hearing or administrative review.  The 
policies also exceed the F.C.C.'s constitutional authority, 
and are inconsistent with the F.C.C.'s established 
guidelines and function.  The Forfeiture Order should be 
rescinded, and Applicant Dunifer should be granted 
Commission authorization to engage in unlicensed 10 watt or 
lower FM micro radio broadcasts that create no interference 
with licensed or navigational broadcasts.

						Respectfully Submitted,

	
							      		     	
					Louis N. Hiken,
						Attorney for Stephen P. 		
					Dunifer
 Forfeiture Order at p. 10.  
 Perhaps the Forfeiture Order’s citation of both of these sections 
constitutes  notification that either of these options is available to 
Respondent Dunifer.  If so, we would respectfully suggest that future 
notifications to Respondents regarding their rights of appeal be made in 
a less obtuse fashion.
 47 C.F.R. §1.115.  The section also provides that an Application for 
Review is a prerequisite to judicial review of any action taken pursuant 
to delegated authority.  47 C.F.R. §1.115(k)  
 47 C.F.R. 1.106(a)(1).  It is unclear from the regulation’s language 
who decides, and by what criteria the decision is made, which of these 
government agents is to act upon a Petition for Reconsideration.
 47 C.F.R. §1.115(a) (emphasis added).
 47 C.F.R. 0.311(d)(1).
 Forfeiture Order at p.10.
 This summary is provided in accordance with 47 C.F.R. 1.49(c)
 Hereinafter referred to as "Policy Statement."  While the 1993 "Policy 
Statement" amends the 1991 version, none of the changes are relevant to 
this case.
 Forfeiture Order at pp. 3,6.
 Forfeiture Order at p. 6.  The Forfeiture Order states that, "The 
issue of First Amendment protections connected with the content of radio 
transmissions is not germane to this proceeding. . . .indeed this stage 
of the proceedings is not the forum to make such arguments."
 Forfeiture Order pp. 4-6.
 Compare N.A.L. at p. 2, paragraph 12, to Forfeiture Order, pp. 4-6.
 Forfeiture Order, p.4.
 Forfeiture Order, p.3.
 Forfeiture Order at p.8.
 Forfeiture Order at p.9.  The Forfeiture Order stated that, "This 
stage of the instant proceedings is not the proper forum for arguing 
alleged conflicts amongst provisions of international treaty obligations 
and national regulatory statutes and regulations." 
 Forfeiture Order at pp.7-8.
 See Forfeiture Order, pp. 3, 6.
 47 C.F.R. §§ 73.211 et. seq., 73.511.
 To the extent that any standards or procedures do exist 
pertaining to the Commission’s suggestion that we request a rule 
change or waiver, or that persons should apply for a license 
despite the fact that they know they do not meet the regulatory 
requirements, we would request at this time that the Commission 
provide such standards or procedures to us, to guide us in 
attempting to comply with the Commission’s suggestions.  
 According to the Forfeiture Order’s argument, no court could ever hold 
a law unconstitutional because one can always petition Congress to 
change it.
 Forfeiture Order, p. 3.
 Sample form attached hereto and marked as Exhibit A.
 Public Notice CRTC 1993-95, CRTC (1993), attached hereto and marked as 
Exhibit B.
 Report and Recommendations in the Low Power Television Inquiry, 
Appendix 1 (BC Docket No. 78-253).  
 Reply, pp. 4-7, paragraph number 3(a)
 Forfeiture Order, p.5.
 See the N.A.L. at p. 2, paragraph 12.
 See argument at pp. 14-17, below.
 Reply at pp. 5-6.
 As to the Forfeiture Order’s accusation that Counsel is guilty of 
"attempting to give micro power broadcasts a cachet of respectability" 
by so characterizing the activity, we would refer the Commission to the 
recent Order filed by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in Dougan v. 
F.C.C. (93-55433, DC No. CV-91-06431-RG, Order filed November 23, 1993), 
in which the Court itself refers to "micro power broadcasts."  Rather 
than being a cachet, micro radio constitutes a legitimate vehicle for 
democratic communication in this country; one which the F.C.C. should be 
eager to embrace.  
 Reply, pp. 7-10, paragraph number 3(b).
 Reply, pp. 7-8.
 Ibid.
 Ibid.
 Id., at note 4.
 Ibid.
 Forfeiture Order at p. 4.  Compare to the N.A.L. at p. 2, paragraph 
12.
 Forfeiture Order at p. 4.
 N.A.L., at p. 2, paragraph 12.
 The Forfeiture Order, after determining a base amount of $8000, 
adjusts this amount upward by $12,000 (150%), and maintains that no 
downward adjustment whatsoever is warranted.
 The Forfeiture Order’s upward and downward mitigation analysis, in 
addition to being clearly result-oriented, raises new factual 
allegations never before presented to Counsel for Applicant, and for 
which absolutely no factual basis exists in the record before the 
Commission.  (See Forfeiture Order at p. 5, third full paragraph.)  
Furthermore, the Forfeiture Order’s mitigation analysis improperly 
weighs what it terms a "major confrontation to the regulatory authority 
of the Commission."   The Forfeiture Order’s assertion that confronting 
the regulatory authority of the Commission is enough alone to render an 
offense "egregious" and incapable of being considered "minor" has 
absolutely no support whatsoever in either the "Policy Statement" nor 
its legislative history.  The obviously affronted tone of this argument 
suggests that the Commission staff who authored the Forfeiture Order 
have taken personal offense at Applicant Dunifer’s activities, and are 
manipulating these forfeiture procedures to wage an improper vendetta 
against  him. 
 See the N.A.L. at p. 2, paragraph 12.
 Reply, pp. 3-4.
 Reply, pp. 1-2, note 2.
 Those arguments appear, respectively, at Reply, p.12, paragraph number 
6; pp.12-13, paragraph number 7; pp. 11-12, paragraph number 5

	1

	1

	1

	1


