
LOUIS N. HIKEN,  SBN 45337
Attorney at Law
One Sansome Street, Suite 900
San Francisco, California 94104
Tel:  (415)705-6460 Fax:  (415) 
705-6444







UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA
 



United States of America,

		     Plaintiff,

		v.			
	

Stephen Paul Dunifer,
		
               Defendant

No. C 94-3542 CW


DEFENDANT’S MOTION IN 
OPPOSITION TO PLAINTIFF’S 
MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY 
INJUNCTION

Date:  December 2, 1994
Time:  10:30 a.m.
Place: Courtroom 2
       1301 Clay Street,
       Oakland


Introduction
	There is no emergency in this case.  The plaintiffs, 
themselves, argue that Steven Dunifer has been broadcasting 
for at least one and 1/2 years with low power wattage.  The 
FCC has had pending before it for that entire period of time 
pleadings which challenge their regulatory scheme.  Rather 
than responding to those pleadings, and the issues raised 
therein, the FCC now comes to this court seeking an 
injunction.
	The declarations filed by the plaintiffs indicate that 
they are scrupulously monitoring the broadcasts of Radio Free 
Berkeley, and know precisely when and how often it broadcasts.  
If there were truly any immediate threat of injury or harm to 
anybody, why did they wait for over 18 months to bring it to 
this court's attention? 
	The obvious answer is that there is no immediate harm 
posed by Radio Free Berkeley's broadcasts.  There are micro-
radio broadcasters all over the country challenging the FCC's 
authority to limit the issuance of radio licenses to only 
wealthy commercial broadcasters.  The questions posed by this 
lawsuit should be resolved through thorough litigation on the 
merits of the issues.  An injunction as this point would only 
reinforce the arbitrary and discriminatory regulatory scheme 
enacted by the FCC.  It would deny what little non-commercial 
democratic voice exists over the airwaves and it would protect 
no interests that require immediate protection.

Argument
	On June 1, 1993, the F.C.C. issued a Notice of Apparent 
Liability (N.A.L.) against defendant Stephen Dunifer, in which 
the F.C.C. sought to impose a forfeiture of $20,000 against 
defendant for allegedly engaging in two unlicensed low power 
FM broadcasts. On June 28, 1993, defendant filed his Response 
to the N.A.L. A copy of that Response is attached hereto as 
exhibit A. We excerpt from that Response: 

	"The Federal Communications Commission (F.C.C.) 
policies with regard to micro radio broadcasting have 
failed to keep pace with the rapid proliferation of 
technological advances in the field of communication.  
The F.C.C.'s current regulatory scheme completely 
prohibits micro radio broadcasters and their 
listeners from accessing the public airwaves.  To 
enforce this absolute prohibition, the F.C.C. is 
relying upon regulations, and case law applying the 
regulations, which were intended solely for 
application to large-scale, commercial broadcasters, 
and which were promulgated long before the advent of 
the technology that makes possible micro radio; 
indeed, even before the advent of FM broadcasting. 
The F.C.C.'s application of these regulations 
violates the First Amendment rights of individuals 
seeking to exercise those rights via methods and 
mediums that were technologically impossible when the 
regulations were created.  
	The cost of owning and operating a radio station has 
skyrocketed into the hundreds of thousands and even 
million dollar range, and participation in the 
broadcast media has thereby become limited only to 
large corporations. The individual seeking to 
communicate and listen to others over the airwaves in 
his or her local community is completely left out of 
the licensing scheme if he or she cannot afford the 
expenses entailed in purchasing, obtaining a license 
for and operating a commercial broadcast station with 
at least 100 watts of power.  
	Micro radio provides a format by which ordinary 
people can communicate with one another over the 
airwaves without interfering with the rights of 
large-scale, F.C.C. licensed commercial stations or 
their listeners.  The F.C.C., however, has not 
provided a means by which persons wishing to avail 
themselves of this new technological opportunity can 
legally do so.  The problem is not that micro radio 
broadcasters are refusing to comply with F.C.C. 
licensing procedures.  Rather, the fundamental 
problem is that the F.C.C. has not provided 
procedures by which micro radio broadcasters can 
become licensed or authorized.  Instead, the F.C.C. 
is applying severe administrative and criminal 
sanctions, intended for application to large-scale, 
commercial operators, to micro radio broadcasters 
with the goal of completely precluding all such 
broadcasts. The very notion of assessing a $20,000 
forfeiture against Mr. Dunifer, an individual with no 
prior F.C.C. violations, accused of transmitting two 
low-power, non-commercial broadcasts of approximately 
1 hour duration, is ludicrous.
	It is the obligation of the F.C.C. to construct and 
enforce its regulatory framework in such a way as to 
safeguard the First Amendment right of free speech 
for all persons, regardless of their economic power.  
By totally prohibiting low-power micro radio, the 
F.C.C. has failed to comply with its congressional 
mandate to regulate the airwaves in the public 
interest, has exceeded the limits of the power 
conferred upon it by Congress, and is violating the 
constitutional rights of micro radio broadcasters and 
their listeners." Response to N.A.L., N.A.L./Acct. 
No. 315SF0050, SF-93-13555, at pp. 1-2. [Footnote 
omitted, emphasis in original].
	After the F.C.C. denied defendant’s June 28, 1993 request 
for relief, defendant, pursuant to 47 C.F.R. §1.115, filed 
with the F.C.C. an Application for Review of Action Taken 
Pursuant To Delegated Authority. That Application set forth, 
in detail, the constitutional and procedural arguments as to 
why the F.C.C.’s N.A.L in defendant’s case, as well as the 
absolute ban of all low-power FM broadcasting, is illegal.
	A copy of that document is attached hereto as exhibit B 
and incorporated herein by reference. As of the date of this 
filing, the F.C.C. has not acted upon that Application for 
Review. At footnote 21 of the Application, defendant asks the 
F.C.C. to provide defendant with any rules or authority that 
would permit him to seek and obtain F.C.C. authorization to 
engage in low-power FM broadcasts. The F.C.C. has not 
responded to that request for the simple reason that no 
regulations exist by which defendant or any other citizen can 
apply for or be granted F.C.C. authorization to engage in low 
power FM broadcasts.
	Defendant’s formal application for F.C.C. review has been 
pending for nearly a year and a half with absolutely no 
response or action by the F.C.C. In July of this year, the 
Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit struck down the entire 
administrative fine structure upon which the F.C.C. relied to 
levy its $20,000 fine against plaintiff.  Now, plaintiff comes 
to this Court seeking the extraordinary relief of a Temporary 
Injunction, claiming imminent and irreparable harm.  
	In his Answer to the plaintiff’s Complaint, Defendant 
will set forth in detail the constitutional and procedural 
reasons why the F.C.C.’s regulatory scheme must be rejected by 
this Court. At this juncture, however, there are several 
compelling reasons why this Court should reject plaintiff’s 
request for injunctive relief:
	1)  The F.C.C., itself, has pending before it documents 
which seek to permit Mr. Dunifer to broadcast with low-power 
transmissions.  They have been sitting on those documents for 
over a year without acting on them.  They should be compelled 
to respond to those arguments, even if their response is to be 
in the negative, before seeking the assistance of this court.
	2)  Evidence to be presented at hearing will demonstrate 
that Mr. Dunifer, if authorized to broadcast at a low-power 
frequency by the F.C.C. can insure that agency that his 
transmissions will not interfere with emergency channels, or 
with other licensed broadcasters.  The transmitters he has 
created possess the same ability to insure filtering and 
frequency accuracy as any officially approved by the F.C.C.  
Because of the F.C.C.'s current licensing scheme which 
completely prohibits all low power FM broadcasting, there are 
no means by which Mr. Dunifer can get formal approval to 
broadcast with these transmitters.  At trial, expert evidence 
will be presented to demonstrate the adequacy of these devices 
to broadcast without interference.
	 On the rare occasions in the past when Free Radio 
Berkeley broadcasts did possibly interfere with another 
channel, it immediately went off the air, corrected any 
problem that caused the interference or moved to a frequency 
where such interference would not occur.   
	The Communications Act of 1934, section 324, requires 
that broadcasters use the "minimum amount of power necessary 
to carry out the communications desired" for their broadcasts.  
Instead of authorizing micro-broadcasting, the F.C.C. licenses 
stations with tens of thousands of watts.  These high-power 
stations (some of which are as powerful as 100 kilowatts) 
result in frequent reception difficulties due to the 
overloading of the FM receivers possessed by many individuals, 
thereby preventing the reception of nearby F.C.C. licensed 
broadcast signals of a lessor  power.  This problem results in 
a much greater degree of interference than anything that could 
be accomplished by a micro-broadcaster.  
	At trial, defendant will offer expert testimony to 
support his representation that his transmitters meet all 
technical requirements which are constitutionally imposed by 
the F.C.C.
	3)  Mr. Dunifer is currently accused of broadcasting for 
a 3-hour period once a week from the Berkeley Hills.  In an 18 
month period, the F.C.C. has cited to only two possible  
occasions when they believe Mr. Dunifer interfered with 
another station.  Evidence at trial will demonstrate that many 
stations actually licensed by the F.C.C. regularly interfere 
with other potential broadcasters more frequently than any 
interference alleged to have been caused by Mr. Dunifer, and 
with more harmful results. 
	4) Plaintiffs cite to this Court the Ninth Circuit’s 
decision in U.S. v. Nutri-Cology, 982 F.2d 394 (1992) for the 
proposition that the government has met their burden of 
showing the "irreparable injury" required before this Court 
can grant the Temporary Injunction. As that decision clearly 
states, however, the fact that a statutory violation is 
alleged does not relieve the government of its obligation to 
make a showing of irreparable injury. 982 F.2d 394,398. 
Indeed, in Nutri-Cology, both the district court and the Ninth 
Circuit found the government had failed to make an adequate 
showing of irreparable injury, and both courts denied the 
government’s request for injunctive relief. A primary factor 
in the Court’s decision was that the statutory violation 
alleged was "substantially disputed, and has been disputed 
since 1982." 982 F.2d 394,398. Also of importance to the Court 
was the considerable delay in the government’s seeking relief. 
982 F.2d 394, 396. Immediately following the passage quoted by 
plaintiffs in their Points and Authorities Memorandum (p.6), 
the Court stated:


 "However, in statutory enforcement cases where the 
government can make only a "colorable evidentiary 
showing" of a violation, the court must consider the 
possibility of irreparable injury." 982 F.2d 394,398.

   In the present case, as in Nutri-Cology, the alleged 
statutory violation is disputed, and has been consistently 
disputed from the inception of the still-pending 
administrative proceedings. Furthermore, the only injury 
alleged by the government here consists of the two minor 
incidents in which Free Radio Berkeley has been said to have 
interfered with the licensed broadcasts of a high school radio 
station late on a Sunday night. As defendant has repeatedly 
pointed out to the F.C.C. (see exhibits A and B), the agency’s 
allegations of potential interference with aircraft 
navigational broadcasts have never been documented, and are 
spurious.  
	If there is irreparable harm to be found in this case, it 
is the on-going policy of the F.C.C. to license only the rich, 
and a handful of educational institutions, that creates such 
harm.  Technology currently exists to allow thousands of 
Americans to have access to the airwaves in ways that could 
assure their democratic use and a meaningful voice in the 
democratic process.  Instead, the F.C.C. has created a system 
whereby the public listens, and the elite broadcast.  
	Allowing Steven Dunifer to continue broadcasting within a 
5 - 30 watt limit on a frequency that is not being used by 
other licensed broadcasters poses a threat to no one.  Mr. 
Dunifer is willing to inform the F.C.C. as to what frequency 
he will be broadcasting from, and what the wattage will be, if 
the F.C.C. will permit him the opportunity to continue 
broadcasting during the pendency of these proceedings.  This 
court has the power and discretion to seek such a compromise 
from the F.C.C. during these proceedings.  Such would provide 
an excellent test case regarding the opposing assertions made 
by the parties herein.  The F.C.C. has refused to acknowledge 
that there could be safe, non-interfering micro-power 
broadcasts, and have made no provisions for authorizing them.
	The myriad of constitutional violations set forth in 
exhibits A and B, which arise as a result of the F.C.C.'s 
decision to preclude the poor from having any access to the 
airwaves, must not be sanctioned by this court.  There are 
numerous less restrictive alternatives to the current 
licensing scheme enforced by the F.C.C. that would provide the 
American people with use of the airwaves. 
	For the reasons set forth in the Response and Application 
currently pending before the F.C.C., their request for a 
Temporary Injunction should be denied.  The F.C.C.’s current 
regulations result in the prior restraint of speech, the 
suppression of diverse ideas, and the unavailability of the 
airwaves for democratic communications in this country.  Those 
are the rights which defendant seeks to vindicate in this 
proceeding, and he should not be cut short at this stage by 
the unfounded accusations of the plaintiffs.


DATED:  ____________  , at San Francisco, California.

						Respectfully submitted,

												 
						LOUIS N. HIKEN, SBN 45337
						Attorney for Defendant

 United States Telephone Association v. F.C.C., No. 92-1321, No. 93-1526, 
1994 U.S. App. Lexis 17002.
 Had defendant, rather than plaintiff, come to this Court seeking 
injunctive or declaratory relief, the F.C.C. would be vehemently urging 
denial of review pending exhaustion of administrative remedies. In fact, in 
a very similar case, Dougan v. F.C.C., 94 C.D.O.S. 2735, No. 92-70734 (9th 
Cir. 1994) the F.C.C. argued to the Ninth Circuit that the only avenue for 
judicial review in these cases is appeal to the District Court after the 
F.C.C. has initiated formal enforcement proceedings to seize the forfeiture 
amount.



























1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28

-1-



1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31



