
LOUIS N. HIKEN, SBN 45337
Attorney at Law
One Sansome Street, Suite 900
San Francisco, California 94104
Tel:(415)705-6460 Fax:(415)705-6444






UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT 
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA


United States of America,

		     Plaintiff,
		v.			
Stephen Paul Dunifer,
               Defendant
No. C 94-3542 CW
DEFENDANT’S MEMORANDUM OF 
POINTS AND AUTHORITIES IN 
SUPPORT OF HIS ANSWER TO 
PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT FOR 
DECLARATORY AND INJUNCTIVE 
RELIEF



TABLE OF CONTENTS
TABLE OF AUTHORITIES
	i
i
INTRODUCTION	1									
I.	THE F.C.C. SHOULD BE REQUIRED TO COMPLETE ITS PENDING 
ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW OF THESE ISSUES BEFORE SEEKING 
RELIEF FROM THIS COURT.	6
II.	THE PROHIBITION OF MICRO RADIO VIOLATES THE F.C.C.’S 
STATUTORY MANDATE TO REGULATE THE AIRWAVES IN THE 
PUBLIC INTEREST, TO ENCOURAGE THE LARGER AND MORE 
EFFECTIVE USE OF RADIO IN THE PUBLIC INTEREST, TO 
ENCOURAGE THE PROVISION OF NEW TECHNOLOGIES AND 
SERVICES TO THE PUBLIC, AND TO PROMOTE DIVERSIFICATION 
OF THE MASS MEDIA AS A WHOLE.	8
III.
	T
HE F.C.C. REGULATIONS PROHIBITING MICRO RADIO VIOLATE 
THE FIRST AMENDMENT.
	1
1
A.	THE SPECTRUM SCARCITY DOCTRINE NEITHER 
REQUIRES NOR JUSTIFIES THE REGULATIONS.	11
B.	THE REGULATIONS AS APPLIED IN THIS CASE 
ARE CONTENT BASED RESTRICTIONS OF 
SPEECH, AND ARE NOT NARROWLY TAILORED TO 
FURTHER A SUBSTANTIAL GOVERNMENT 
INTEREST.	15
IV. 
	P
LAINTIFF’S SUGGESTION THAT DEFENDANT HAS NOT PURSUED 
"AVAILABLE" MEANS OF OBTAINING F.C.C. AUTHORIZATION TO 
ENGAGE IN MICRO RADIO BROADCASTING IS FATUOUS.
	2
0
V. 	THE PROHIBITION OF INTRASTATE MICRO RADIO BROADCASTS 
EXCEEDS THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT'S REGULATORY AUTHORITY 
UNDER THE COMMERCE CLAUSE
	2
3
VI. 
	T
HE F.C.C.’S PROHIBITION OF MICRO RADIO BROADCASTING 
VIOLATES MICRO RADIO BROADCASTERS' AND THEIR LISTENERS' 
RIGHT TO COMMUNICATE UNDER THE U.N. DECLARATION OF 
HUMAN RIGHTS, THE INTERNATIONAL COVENANT ON CIVIL AND 
POLITICAL RIGHTS, AND THE AMERICAN CONVENTION ON HUMAN 
RIGHTS.
	2
3
CONCLUSION
	2
5	
TABLE OF AUTHORITIES
Cases

Associated Press v. United States, 326 U.S. 
1 (1945)	12
Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc. v. 
Democratic National Committee, 412 U.S. 
94 (1973)	12
FCC v. League Of Women Voters of California 
468 U.S. 364 (1984)	5, 14, 15, 17
Federal Communications Commission v. 
National Citizens Committee For 
Broadcasting et al. 436 U.S. 775 (1978)	5, 10, 11, 12
National Broadcasting Co. v. United States 
319 U.S. 190 (1943)	5, 9, 10, 12
Near v. Minnesota  283 U.S. 697 (1931)	17
New York Times Co. v. United States 403 U.S. 
713 (1971)	17
Red Lion Broadcasting Co. v. FCC, 395 U.S. 
367 (1969)	5, 10, 13, 14
United States v. McIntire, 365 F.Supp 618 
and 370 F.Supp 1301 (D.N.J. 1974)	4,7
United States v. Medina, 718 F.Supp 928 
(S.D.Fla. 1989)	4
Statutes
47 U.S.C. §154(i)	8
47 U.S.C. §157(a)	4
47 U.S.C. §303(r)	8
47 U.S.C. §301	2, 23
47 U.S.C. §301(d)	23
47 U.S.C. §303(g)	3, 9
47 C.F.R. part 15	2
47 C.F.R. §12.1235	19
47 C.F.R. §12.1237	20
47 C.F.R. §15.1	2
47 C.F.R. §15.239(a)	2
47 C.F.R. §15.239(b)	20,21
47 C.F.R. §73.201	19
47 C.F.R. §73.211(a)	2
47 C.F.R. §73.506	2
47 C.F.R. §73.511(a)	19
47 C.F.R. §74.1201	19
47 C.F.R. §74.1202	19
47 C.F.R. §74.1202(b)	19
47 C.F.R. §74.1203	19
47 C.F.R. §74.1232	19
47 C.F.R. §74.1250	20
47 C.F.R. §74.1261	20
47 C.F.R. §74.1262	20
47 C.F.R. §74.1263	20
Public Broadcasting Act of 1967, §399	16

Other Authorities
Public Notice CRTC 1993-95, CRTC (1993)	18
Radio World, August 10, 1994, p. 9, "Radio 
Translators Fill in Coverage Gaps."	19
Report and Recommendations in the Low Power 
Television Inquiry, Appendix 1 (BC Docket 
No. 78-253)	18
Telecommunications, Mass Media, and 
Democracy; The Battle for the Control of 
U.S. Broadcasting, 1928-1935, by Robert 
W. McChesney, Oxford University Press, 
1993	22
U.N. Declaration Of Human Rights, Article 19	24
International Covenant On Civil And 
Political Rights, Article 19	24
American Convention On Human Rights, Article 
13(2)	24	



LOUIS N. HIKEN, SBN 45337
Attorney at Law
One Sansome Street, Suite 900
San Francisco, California 94104
Tel:(415)705-6460 Fax:(415)705-6444



UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT 
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA


United States of America,

		     Plaintiff,
		v.			
Stephen Paul Dunifer,
               Defendant
No. C 94-3542 CW


DEFENDANT’S MEMORANDUM OF 
POINTS AND AUTHORITIES IN 
SUPPORT OF HIS ANSWER TO 
PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT FOR 
DECLARATORY AND INJUNCTIVE 
RELIEF

Introduction
	Micro radio  represents a technological advancement 
comparable to the invention of the printing press. For the 
first time in history, the technology exists whereby an 
individual without corporate or government backing, or 
independent wealth can, for less than one hundred dollars, 
obtain equipment by which she can broadcast to her 
neighborhood, making possible truly community oriented, 
originated, and controlled radio. Micro radio is the 
leaflet of the 1990’s, permitting citizens to communicate 
with their neighbors by a method heretofore reserved for 
huge radio stations promoting commercial interests from 
distant locations.
	The central issue in this case is the F.C.C.’s 
prohibition of micro radio broadcasting. Despite 
plaintiff’s protestations to the contrary , the F.C.C. is 
indeed enforcing a complete and absolute ban of all micro 
radio broadcasts--that is, all original FM broadcasts of 
less than 100 watts capable of reaching a listening 
audience. Federal law prohibits anyone from broadcasting 
without a license , and the F.C.C. refuses to grant anyone 
a license unless they are capable of broadcasting with a 
minimum of 100 watts.  While 47 C.F.R. part 15 permits 
certain unlicensed "broadcasts,"  this exception to the 100 
watt minimum applies only if the field strength of the 
broadcast is less than 250 microvolts/meter at three 
meters.  As plaintiff is well aware, a broadcast in 
compliance with the parameters of 47 C.F.R. part 15 could 
not be received by anyone farther than a house or two away 
from the source. Plaintiff’s denial that their rules 
completely prohibit micro radio is deceptive, and begs the 
question before this court.
	Plaintiff has stated to this court that, "The same 
public interest considerations that require licensing of 
other radio devices apply equally to low-power stations: 
namely to prevent the ‘cacophony of sounds’ and chaos on 
the limited radio spectrum."  Assuming, arguendo, that this 
is true, plaintiff has never proffered an explanation as to 
why, if "the same public interest considerations" apply, 
the government has refused to establish any procedure by 
which defendant or anyone else can engage in licensed, 
regulated micro radio broadcasting. Plaintiff's regulations 
apply to broadcasters in rural areas with virtually no 
spectrum competition just as they do to areas with a 
concentrated number of stations.
	Plaintiff has argued to this court that the "logical 
extension" of defendant’s argument is that "anyone 
proclaiming that he will not cause interference can set up 
a radio station without F.C.C. oversight."   Defendant, 
however, does not challenge the F.C.C.’s authority to 
regulate micro-power broadcasts. Rather, defendant herein 
challenges the constitutionality of the F.C.C.’s complete 
ban of all FM broadcasts of less than 100 watts. 
	The F.C.C. is statutorily required to regulate the 
airwaves in the public interest, and to "study new uses for 
radio, provide for experimental uses of frequencies, and 
generally encourage the larger and more effective use of 
radio in the public interest." 47 U.S.C. § 303(g). 47 
U.S.C. §157(a) provides that, "It shall be the policy of 
the United States to encourage the provision of new 
technologies and services to the public." 47 U.S.C. §324 
provides that, "In all circumstances, except in case of 
radio communications or signals relating to vessels in 
distress, all radio stations, including those owned and 
operated by the United States, shall use the minimum amount 
of power necessary to carry out the communication desired."  
Micro radio provides a perfect opportunity for the F.C.C. 
to fulfill these statutory mandates. Instead, the F.C.C. is 
enforcing an irrational ban of micro radio. The government 
asserts repeatedly its interest in "regulating the 
airwaves," but nowhere explains to this Court how this ban 
serves the public interest, or why it has chosen to 
prohibit micro radio altogether.
	The constitutionality of the F.C.C.’s prohibition of 
micro radio is a matter of first impression. The cases 
cited by plaintiff  regarding the district court authority 
to enjoin unlicensed broadcasts involved full power 
broadcasts; activities for which the enjoined parties could 
have been licensed, had they gone through the appropriate 
procedures. The ban of micro radio at issue here is 
distinguishable from cases in which the F.C.C. has denied a 
broadcast license to an individual applicant. Here, a whole 
class of broadcasters is denied even the opportunity to 
apply for a license, based upon the F.C.C.’s unreasonable 
decision to impose the 100 watt minimum. Defendant herein 
could never be licensed to conduct micro radio broadcasts 
under the current regulatory framework, because of the 100 
watt minimum. 
	The fact that this case presents a matter of first 
impression does not leave the court without applicable 
standards. Several Supreme Court cases, including four 
cases cited but not discussed by plaintiff, Red Lion 
Broadcasting Co. v. FCC, 395 U.S. 367 (1969), FCC v. League 
Of Women Voters of California 468 U.S. 364 (1984), National 
Broadcasting Co. v. United States 319 U.S. 190 (1943), and 
Federal Communications Commission v. National Citizens 
Committee For Broadcasting et al. 436 U.S. 775 (1978), 
provide the constitutional and statutory standards with 
which the government’s regulation of the airwaves must 
comply.
	These cases make clear that while the F.C.C. is 
granted wide latitude in its regulation of the airwaves, 
its discretion is far from absolute. The Commission’s 
regulations governing the licensing of broadcasters must 
serve the public interest, convenience, or necessity.  This 
mandate includes the requirement that the airwaves must be 
regulated in a manner which protects and furthers the 
public’s First Amendment rights to have access to a broad 
and diverse range of opinions and perspectives, and to 
receive a balanced presentation of views on diverse matters 
of public concern.
	Furthermore, while the doctrine of "spectrum scarcity" 
results in a modified First Amendment analysis for the 
broadcast media, even this modified analysis has permitted 
government restrictions of broadcasters’ First Amendment 
rights only when such restrictions were narrowly tailored 
to further a substantial government interest.
	Plaintiffs have chosen to ignore the central issue in 
these proceedings (the constitutionality of their 
prohibition of micro radio), and in so doing mis-
characterize the question before this court as a simple 
matter of deciding whether or not the F.C.C. has the 
authority to regulate the airwaves, and whether or not 
defendant has broadcast without an F.C.C. license. 
Defendant does not herein challenge the F.C.C.’s authority 
to regulate the airwaves, nor does defendant deny that he 
has broadcast without an F.C.C. license. Defendant does not 
have an F.C.C. license to engage in micro radio 
broadcasting because the F.C.C. simply does not provide any 
mechanism or procedure whatsoever by which such a license 
can possibly be obtained, by defendant or by anyone else. 
This prohibition of micro radio broadcasting is 
unreasonable, does not serve the public interest, and 
violates the First Amendment. If the regulations as 
currently enforced by the F.C.C. violate the agency’s 
statutory mandate and are unconstitutional, defendant’s 
violation thereof cannot form the basis for granting the 
declaratory and injunctive relief sought by plaintiff. 

I.	THE F.C.C. SHOULD BE REQUIRED TO COMPLETE ITS PENDING 
ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW OF THESE ISSUES BEFORE SEEKING RELIEF FROM 
THIS COURT.	
	On June 1, 1993, the F.C.C. issued a Notice of 
Apparent Liability (N.A.L.) against defendant Stephen 
Dunifer, in which the F.C.C. sought to impose a forfeiture 
of $20,000 against defendant for allegedly engaging in two 
unlicensed low power FM broadcasts. On June 28, 1993, 
defendant filed his Response to the N.A.L., and, on 
December 2, 1993, pursuant to 47 C.F.R. §1.115, filed with 
the F.C.C. an Application for Review of Action Taken 
Pursuant To Delegated Authority. That Application set forth 
the constitutional and procedural arguments as to why the 
F.C.C.’s N.A.L in defendant’s case, as well as the ban of 
all micro radio broadcasting, is illegal. 
	More than a year and a half has passed since defendant 
first filed his request for relief challenging the F.C.C.’s 
ban of micro radio. The F.C.C. has not responded to that 
request. The F.C.C. should be required to complete its own 
internal review of these issues before seeking this Court’s 
intervention.
	Plaintiff cites United States v. McIntire, 365 F.Supp 
618 and 370 F.Supp 1301 (D.N.J. 1974) in this regard, but 
McIntire is distinguishable from the present case. In 
McIntire, the defendant lost his F.C.C. license, and then 
engaged in full-power broadcasts from a boat offshore. 
There was no currently-pending administrative review 
action, as there is here, initiated by the F.C.C. and 
raising the precise issues as those before the federal 
court.
	It is ironic that the F.C.C. claims that defendant 
herein has failed to pursue discretionary administrative 
relief, such as a rule-change or waiver request, and yet 
has itself refused to respond to defendant’s administrative 
appeal which has been before it for more than eighteen 
months.
	There are factual and legal questions to which the 
F.C.C. itself should be required to respond; this will 
provide guidance useful to the Court in its evaluation of 
the pending issues.  This Court should exercise its 
discretion to retain jurisdiction over this case, and 
require the F.C.C. to complete its internal administrative 
review of defendant’s claim.  

II.	THE PROHIBITION OF MICRO RADIO VIOLATES THE F.C.C.’S STATUTORY 
MANDATE TO REGULATE THE AIRWAVES IN THE PUBLIC INTEREST, TO 
ENCOURAGE THE LARGER AND MORE EFFECTIVE USE OF RADIO IN THE PUBLIC 
INTEREST, TO ENCOURAGE THE PROVISION OF NEW TECHNOLOGIES AND 
SERVICES TO THE PUBLIC, AND TO PROMOTE DIVERSIFICATION OF THE MASS 
MEDIA AS A WHOLE.  		
	The authority for the F.C.C.’s regulatory power is 
derived from the Communications Act. 47 U. S. C. §303(r) 
provides that "the Commission from time to time, as public 
convenience, interest, or necessity requires, shall . . . 
[make] such rules and regulations and prescribe such 
restrictions and conditions, not inconsistent with law, as 
may be necessary to carry out the provisions of [the Act]." 
47 U. S. C. §154(i) provides that, "The Commission may 
perform any and all acts, make such rules and regulations, 
and issue such orders, not inconsistent with this chapter, 
as may be necessary in the execution of its functions." 
	The Communications Act also provides that, "...[t]he  
Commission from time to time, as public convenience, 
interest, or necessity requires, shall...[s]tudy new uses 
for radio, provide for experimental uses of frequencies, 
and generally encourage the larger and more effective use 
of radio in the public interest." 47 U.S.C. §303(g).
		The Supreme Court analyzed these statutory bases 
of the F.C.C.’s regulating authority in National 
Broadcasting Co. v. United States, 319 U.S. 190 (1943) 
(hereinafter "NBC"). In NBC, the Court upheld challenged 
F.C.C. regulations prohibiting multiple ownership of AM 
radio stations. The Court, after reviewing the statutory 
framework, found that, "[the] avowed aim of the 
Communications Act of 1934 was to secure the maximum 
benefits of radio to all the people of the United States," 
and that "[t]he criterion governing the exercise of the 
Commission's licensing power is the ‘public interest, 
convenience, or necessity.’" 319 U.S. at 215, 217. The 
Court acknowledged that because "[t]he facilities of radio 
are not large enough to accommodate all who wish to use 
them,"  Congress had committed to the F.C.C. the task of 
allocating the available spectrum space, but then stated:

"  The Commission was, however, not left at large 
in performing this duty.  The touchstone provided 
by Congress was the public interest, convenience, 
or necessity, a criterion which is as concrete as 
the complicated factors for judgment in such a 
field of delegated authority permit. This 
criterion is not to be interpreted as setting up a 
standard so indefinite as to confer an unlimited 
power. The requirement is to be interpreted by its 
context, by the nature of radio transmission and 
reception, by the scope, character and quality of 
services.
   The public interest to be served under the 
Communications Act is thus the interest of the 
listening public in ‘the larger and more effective 
use of radio.’ [citing 47 U.S.C. § 303 (g)]. The 
facilities of radio are limited and therefore 
precious; they cannot be left to wasteful use 
without detriment to the public interest." NBC, 
supra, 319 U.S. at 216, internal quotations and 
citations omitted.
	
	The Supreme Court again reviewed the F.C.C.’s 
regulatory authority, and the "public interest, convenience 
and necessity" standard, in Federal Communications 
Commission v. National Citizens Committee For Broadcasting 
et al. 436 U.S. 775 (1978) (hereinafter NCC). In NCC, the 
Court upheld F.C.C. regulations prospectively barring the 
initial licensing or the transfer of newspaper-broadcast 
combinations where there is common ownership of a radio or 
television broadcast station and a daily newspaper located 
in the same community. The Court discussed at length the 
relationship between the doctrine of spectrum scarcity, the 
First Amendment, and the F.C.C.’s obligation to regulate in 
the public interest: 

"As we have discussed on several occasions [citing 
NBC and Red Lion], the physical scarcity of 
broadcast frequencies, as well as problems of 
interference between broadcast signals, led 
Congress to delegate broad authority to the 
Commission to allocate broadcast licenses in the 
public interest. And the avowed aim of the 
Communications Act of 1934 was to secure the 
maximum benefits of radio to all the people of the 
United States. It was not inconsistent with the 
statutory scheme, therefore, for the Commission to 
conclude that the maximum benefit to the public 
interest would follow from allocation of broadcast 
licenses so as to promote diversification of the 
mass media as a whole.
  Our past decisions have recognized, moreover, 
that the First Amendment . . . values underlying 
the Commission's diversification policy may 
properly be considered by the Commission in 
determining where the public interest lies. The 
public interest standard necessarily invites 
reference to First Amendment  principles and, in 
particular, to the First Amendment goal of 
achieving the widest possible dissemination of 
information from diverse and antagonistic 
sources." NCC, supra, 436 U.S. at 795, internal 
quotations and citations omitted.
	47 U.S.C. 307 (a) directs that "the Commission, if 
public convenience, interest, or necessity will be served 
thereby, subject to the limitations of this Act, shall 
grant to any applicant therefor a station license provided 
for by this Act." In making initial licensing decisions 
between competing applicants, the F.C.C. has long given 
primary significance to diversification of control of the 
media of mass communications. Federal Communications 
Commission v. National Citizens Committee For Broadcasting 
et al. 436 U.S. 775,794 (1978). Yet under the F.C.C.’s 
current policy, no one is even permitted to apply for, much 
less be granted a license to engage in micro radio 
broadcasting. Micro radio represents a significant 
opportunity to further the important public interest and 
First Amendment goal of diversification of control of the 
mass media. Instead of fulfilling their statutory and 
constitutional mandate to regulate the airwaves in the 
public interest, and in a manner designed to achieve "the 
widest possible dissemination of information from diverse 
and antagonistic sources,"  the F.C.C. is relegating the 
airwaves to the exclusive control of megawatt stations 
serving corporate and commercial interests.

III.	THE F.C.C. REGULATIONS PROHIBITING MICRO RADIO VIOLATE THE 
FIRST AMENDMENT.		

A.	THE SPECTRUM SCARCITY DOCTRINE NEITHER REQUIRES NOR JUSTIFIES 
THE REGULATIONS.	  
	The government seems to be asserting that the doctrine 
of spectrum scarcity provides to F.C.C. regulations 
absolute immunity from First Amendment challenge. This 
interpretation of the Supreme Court’s First Amendment 
analysis in this area is incorrect.
	As the cases cited in the above section make clear, 
the F.C.C.’s regulations must meet the "public interest, 
convenience and necessity" standard. "This criterion is not 
to be interpreted as setting up a standard so indefinite as 
to confer an unlimited power," and the "public interest to 
be served under the Communications Act is . . . the 
interest of the listening public in the larger and more 
effective use of radio." NBC, supra, 319 U.S. at 216. 
"[The] public interest standard necessarily invites 
reference to First Amendment principles, and, in 
particular, to the First Amendment goal of achieving the 
widest possible dissemination of information from diverse 
and antagonistic sources." NCC, supra, 436 U.S. 775, 795. 
See also  Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc. v. Democratic 
National Committee, 412 U.S. 94, 122 (1973); Associated 
Press v. United States, 326 U.S. 1, 20 (1945).
	While the decisions cited by the F.C.C. indicate that 
the broadcast spectrum is subject to a different First 
Amendment standard than other media, the Supreme Court in 
these cases repeatedly emphasized its concern with 
broadening and diversifying the sources of information 
available to the public. None of these decisions permitted 
the type of across-the-board prohibition of a new means of 
community-based communication that is at issue in the 
present case.
	In Red Lion Broadcasting Co. v. FCC, 395 U.S. 367 
(1969), the Supreme Court upheld the F.C.C.’s "fairness 
doctrine" against a First Amendment challenge brought by 
broadcasters.  The Red Lion decision enunciated the classic 
formulation of the "scarcity doctrine," establishing that 
the finite number of frequencies available in the broadcast 
spectrum mandated a modified First Amendment analysis for 
determining the constitutionality of government regulations 
of the broadcast medium. The Court, however, repeatedly 
emphasized that the paramount First Amendment concern 
underlying their decision was the right of the public to 
have access to perspectives, opinions, and ideas as wide 
and varied as possible on matters of public concern. The 
public’s First Amendment rights were held by the Court to 
outweigh those of broadcasters forced by the fairness 
doctrine to air views and opinions at odds with their own:

"This is not to say that the First Amendment is 
irrelevant to public broadcasting.  On the 
contrary, it has a major role to play as the 
Congress itself recognized in [forbidding] FCC 
interference with the right of free speech by 
means of radio communication. Because of the 
scarcity of radio frequencies, the Government is 
permitted to put restraints on licensees in favor 
of others whose views should be expressed on this 
unique medium.  But the people as a whole retain 
their interest in free speech by radio and their 
collective right to have the medium function 
consistently with the ends and purposes of the 
First Amendment. It is the right of the viewers 
and listeners, not the right of the broadcasters, 
which is paramount. It is the purpose of the First 
Amendment to preserve an uninhibited marketplace 
of ideas in which truth will ultimately prevail, 
rather than to countenance monopolization of that 
market, whether it be by the Government itself or 
a private licensee...It is the right of the public 
to receive suitable access to social, political, 
esthetic, moral, and other ideas and experiences 
which is crucial here.  That right may not 
constitutionally be abridged either by Congress or 
by the FCC." Red Lion Broadcasting Co. v. FCC, 
supra, 395 U.S. at 389-390, internal quotations 
and citations omitted.
	The public has a First Amendment right to receive the 
broad variety of view-points, perspectives, and programming 
formats which micro radio offers. The advent of micro radio 
not only gives radio listeners a non-governmental, non-
commercial alternative to the perspectives presented on 
mainstream commercial or "public" radio; this new 
technology allows individual citizens to broadcast 
themselves, and present their own personal and local 
community interests directly and effectively, making the 
public airwaves truly public for the first time. Unlike 
commercially controlled interests involving huge financial 
investments, micro radio broadcasters will not shy away 
from controversial or wide-ranging topics of discussion to 
please the largest possible audience.
	The government’s assertion that the doctrine of 
spectrum scarcity requires or permits their ban of micro 
radio is unsupported by the case law to which they cite the 
Court. In FCC v. League Of Women Voters of California 468 
U.S. 364 (1984), the Supreme Court struck down a federal 
statute  prohibiting public broadcasters from endorsing 
political candidates or editorializing. The Court plainly 
stated that the restrictions placed upon the broadcast 
media under the spectrum scarcity rationale are permitted 
because the overall impact is to further and protect the 
public’s First Amendment rights of access to broad and 
diverse perspectives. Furthermore, the Court pointed out, 
never had restrictions based on spectrum scarcity been 
permitted absent a showing that they were narrowly tailored 
to further a substantial government interest:

"...[A]lthough the broadcasting industry plainly 
operates under restraints not imposed upon other 
media, the thrust of these restrictions has 
generally been to secure the public's First 
Amendment interest in receiving a balanced 
presentation of views on diverse matters of public 
concern....But, as our cases attest, these 
restrictions have been upheld only when we were 
satisfied that the restriction is narrowly 
tailored to further a substantial governmental 
interest, such as ensuring adequate and balanced 
coverage of public issues." FCC v. League Of Women 
Voters of California, supra, 468 U.S. at 380-381, 
emphasis added, citations omitted.
 
	Applying this standard, the Court held that the 
statute before them violated the First Amendment because 
not all of the interests asserted by the government were 
deemed "substantial," and the statute was not narrowly 
tailored to further those interests that were so deemed. 
468 U.S. at 398-402.

B.	THE REGULATIONS AS APPLIED IN THIS CASE ARE CONTENT BASED 
RESTRICTIONS OF SPEECH, AND ARE NOT NARROWLY TAILORED TO 
FURTHER A SUBSTANTIAL GOVERNMENT INTEREST.	 
	The F.C.C.’s decision to seek injunctive relief 
against defendant in this case is based upon the nature and 
the content of his broadcasts, and statements he has made 
in other print and broadcast media. Defendant herein is one 
of many micro radio broadcasters nationwide.  Yet the 
government has sought to enjoin only defendant, the most 
prominent and outspoken critic of the F.C.C. and their 
regulatory authority. 
	The government asserts that unless enjoined by this 
Court, defendant will cause irreparable injury to the 
public. Yet after months of intensive monitoring of Free 
Radio Berkeley (hereinafter "F.R.B."), the F.C.C. can point 
to only two instances of "interference." In both instances, 
the only interference to which the government refers was 
reported by F.C.C. agents themselves, and in at least one 
of these instances, only in the immediate proximity of the 
F.R.B. transmitter. 
	In its October 14, 1994 response to a FOIA request 
filed by the newsletter of the National Lawyers Guild, the 
F.C.C. admitted that it had received no complaints 
regarding interference from the F.R.B. signal.  Rather, as 
the F.C.C. response makes clear, the F.C.C. received a 
handful of complaints regarding the fact that defendant was 
broadcasting at all. Some of these complainants apparently 
never even heard an F.R.B. broadcast, but had seen flyers 
or otherwise heard about F.R.B.’s challenge to the F.C.C.’s 
regulations. Defendant’s public criticism of the F.C.C., 
rather than actual interference with licensed broadcasts, 
is the reason he has been targeted by the F.C.C. in this 
federal court action.    
	Under the holding of FCC v. League Of Women Voters of 
California, supra, and the cases cited therein, content-
based restrictions of speech, even in the broadcast media, 
are permissible only if narrowly tailored to further a 
substantial government interest. 468 U.S. at 380-381.
	The F.C.C. asserts that the government interest served 
by the prohibition of micro radio is the prevention of 
"chaos" and a "cacaphony of sound."  The prohibition of 
micro radio broadcasting effected by the current regulatory 
scheme, however, is far from narrowly tailored to achieve 
this goal; there are clearly less restrictive means of 
regulation available which would not unduly burden the 
government.  All of the government’s asserted concerns can 
be addressed by the regulation of micro radio broadcasting; 
the creation of a similar system of licensing broadcasters, 
assigning frequencies and monitoring the technical 
specifications of broadcasting equipment as that which 
exists for full-power broadcasts.
	 The government need look no further than to Canada 
for examples of much less restrictive means of addressing 
micro radio. Since 1978, Canada has licensed low power FM 
radio broadcasters in remote communities with a simple 
three-page application form.  The Canadian Radio-Television 
and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) has recently 
modified its rules to permit such broadcasts even in urban 
areas, where frequency space is much more scarce.   Indeed, 
in a report on low power television, the F.C.C. itself 
attached as an appendix a copy of Canadian recommendations 
regarding the regulation of low power FM broadcasting.  
These recommendations included the suggestion that 
application forms and required information be simple enough 
to allow for easy application by potential low power 
licensees.   Review of this F.C.C. report and the 
attachments thereto reveals that the licensing and 
administrative requirements necessary to oversee operation 
of micro radio stations is not overly burdensome.  Indeed, 
these licensing forms reveal that micro radio can be easily 
regulated so as to prevent any risk of signal interference. 
	Further evidence of the less restrictive alternatives 
available to the Commission in this regard is available in 
the F.C.C.’s own history.  Until relatively recently, Non-
Commercial Educational FM broadcast stations could be 
licensed by the F.C.C. to broadcast with up to 10 watts of 
power.  
	Finally, the F.C.C.’s own regulations pertaining to FM 
translators provide an example of how the F.C.C. could 
regulate micro radio. The F.C.C. permits translators to re-
broadcast, on frequencies within the normal commercial and 
noncommercial FM radio band, signals that originate from 
huge radio stations located far from the community in which 
the translator is placed. 
	Current F.C.C. regulations  permit low power 
transmitters to operate with less than 100 watts if they 
are transmitting a signal originating from a full-power 
radio station, but prohibit local broadcasters from using a 
transmitter with identical wattage to broadcast any program 
originating in the listener’s community. The F.C.C. has 
promulgated translator regulations to address issues such 
as frequency assignment , interference , licensing 
requirements , power limitations , antenna location , 
transmitters and equipment , frequency tolerance , 
frequency monitors and measurements , and time of 
operation.  Many of these regulations could be just as 
easily applied, almost verbatim, to micro radio broadcasts 
originating in the communities to which they are being 
broadcast.
		
IV.	PLAINTIFF’S SUGGESTION THAT DEFENDANT HAS NOT PURSUED "AVAILABLE" 
MEANS OF OBTAINING F.C.C. AUTHORIZATION TO ENGAGE IN MICRO RADIO 
BROADCASTING IS FATUOUS.	
	Plaintiff suggests that defendant has not availed 
himself of possible avenues by which F.C.C. permission 
might be sought and obtained.  This suggestion is 
disingenuous. Defendant, in his Application for Review 
currently pending before the F.C.C., responded to a similar 
contention raised by the F.C.C. in those proceedings.  In 
their argument to this Court, the government has dropped 
some of the F.C.C.’s more transparent "suggestions" as to 
how defendant could supposedly have sought F.C.C. approval 
for micro radio broadcasting. Still remaining, however, are 
the F.C.C.’s assertions that, 1) defendant could legally 
broadcast without a license under the provisions of 47 
C.F.R. § 15.239(b);  and 2) defendant could have "asked the 
agency to establish rules that would permit him to 
operate...[by presenting] a rulemaking petition pursuant to 
the [A.P.A.], or a request for waiver."   The first 
"option" is meaningless, since the field strength permitted 
by §15.239(b) is so low as to preclude any micro radio 
broadcast capable of being received beyond approximately 
one block away from the transmitter.  The activity for 
which defendant is seeking F.C.C. permission consists of 
communicating with his neighbors and his community via the 
new technology which for the first time in history makes 
low power FM broadcasting economically feasible for 
individual citizens. The government’s suggestion that a 
micro radio broadcast could comply with the field strength 
limitations imposed by §15.239(b) is misleading, at best.
	The second option suggested by the government, 
petitioning the Commission for a rule change or waiver, 
again begs the question  before this Court. Defendant is 
challenging the F.C.C.’s regulatory framework, as currently 
formulated and enforced, because they violate the F.C.C.’s 
statutory mandate and the First Amendment. Plaintiffs seek 
to avoid addressing the constitutional infirmity of the 
current rules by suggesting that defendant should have 
asked the F.C.C. to change or waive their rules. Citizens 
have no responsibility whatsoever to petition the F.C.C. to 
change unconstitutional regulations--rather, the F.C.C. is 
required to structure its regulatory framework so as to 
comply with the relevant statutory standards and the First 
Amendment. 
	Similarly evasive is the government’s suggestion that 
there is no complete ban of micro radio because defendant 
could initiate a formal rule-change procedure under the 
A.P.A. Neither defendant, nor any other individual citizen 
of modest means, could conceivably afford the monetary 
expense involved in initiating and participating in such a 
process; nor could defendant hope to meaningfully compete 
with the commercial interests and their lobbyists that 
would inevitably become involved in and eventually control 
such a process.  The historical significance of micro radio 
lies precisely in the fact that average citizens can now 
have access to the airwaves to communicate with their 
neighbors. Requiring defendant to initiate a formal rule-
making procedure under the A.P.A. would serve the same 
function as the 100 watt minimum: it would place the 
ability to engage in this new form of communication out of 
the reach of all but the very wealthy.

V.	THE PROHIBITION OF INTRASTATE MICRO RADIO BROADCASTS EXCEEDS THE 
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT'S REGULATORY AUTHORITY UNDER THE COMMERCE
	CLAUSE.		
	The Communications Act of 1934 was originally enacted 
to maintain the control of the United States over all the 
channels of interstate and foreign radio transmissions.  
This power is arguably in accord with Art. I Sect. 2 of the 
U.S. constitution, which permits Congress to regulate 
interstate commerce.  While the language of 47 U.S.C. § 
301(d) states that the F.C.C. has the authority to regulate 
even purely intrastate transmissions, the statute must be 
interpreted and applied in a manner consistent with the 
constitutional limitations of Congress's power to regulate 
interstate commerce.  Thus, F.C.C. regulation of intrastate 
transmissions which interfere with, and perhaps those which 
are capable of interfering with, interstate commerce may be 
constitutional.  However, where, as here, there is 
absolutely no showing that any of the F.R.B. transmissions 
has in any way interfered, or could possibly interfere, 
with interstate signals, the F.C.C. is venturing beyond its 
regulatory authority.  An application or interpretation of 
47 U.S.C. §301 which permits such excessive regulation is 
unconstitutional under the commerce clause.   

VI.	THE F.C.C.’S PROHIBITION OF MICRO RADIO BROADCASTING VIOLATES 	
	MICRO RADIO BROADCASTERS' AND THEIR LISTENERS' RIGHT TO 
	COMMUNICATE UNDER THE U.N. DECLARATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS, THE 
	INTERNATIONAL COVENANT ON CIVIL AND POLITICAL
	RIGHTS, AND THE AMERICAN CONVENTION ON HUMAN RIGHTS.	 
	More than at any time in the world’s history, 
communication amongst the world’s people plays a pivotal 
role. Events in places such as Bhopal, Chiapas, or 
Chernobyl can and do profoundly impact societies and 
communities halfway around the world. As a result, each 
nation’s communications policies take on an importance 
unparalleled in many other fields of law. Given the 
international scope of events that the world’s peoples must 
learn about, it is more important than ever for the Court 
to incorporate into its evaluation of the issue pending 
before it those treaties and international principles that 
shed light on this subject. These treaties are made part of 
the law of our nation through Article VI of the U.S. 
Constitution, and are highly relevant to consideration of 
the issues argued herein.
	Article 19 of the U.N. Declaration Of Human Rights and 
the parallel Article 19 of the International Covenant On 
Civil And Political Rights state:

"Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and 
expression; this right includes freedom to hold 
opinions without interference and to seek, receive 
and impart information through any media and 
regardless of frontiers."
	These international treaties promote recognition of 
the right to expression and information as a universal 
human right guaranteed by international law.  The treaties 
expressly forbid undue restraints on freedom of expression, 
and require the government to establish, and substantiate 
if necessary, its justification for restrictions placed 
upon its citizens' right of free expression.  Similarly, 
Article 13(2) of the American Convention on Human Rights 
requires that any governmental "restrictions imposed. . . 
on freedom of expression depend upon a showing that the 
restrictions are required by a compelling state interest," 
and that if there exist "various options to achieve this 
objective, that which least restricts the right protected 
must be selected." 
	As signatory to these international treaties, the 
United States government has a responsibility to conform 
its regulation of the electronic broadcast media to the 
treaties' requirements.  The F.C.C.’s ban of micro radio 
broadcasting is a blatant violation of this most 
fundamental of internationally recognized human rights.
Conclusion
	For the reasons stated above, defendant respectfully 
requests that the Court deny the relief sought by 
defendants, and declare the F.C.C. prohibition of micro 
radio unconstitutional and in violation of the F.C.C.’s 
statutory mandate to regulate the airwaves in the public 
interest.
	
DATED:  ____________  , at San Francisco, California.

						Respectfully submitted,

											 
						LOUIS N. HIKEN, SBN 45337
						Attorney for Defendant

  The term "Micro radio" refers to low-power FM broadcasting, ranging 
from 1 watt or less to about 30 watts, as contrasted with the 
thousands, or even hundreds of thousands, of watts generated by most 
commercial and public broadcasting radio stations.
  See PLAINTIFF’S MEMORANDUM OF POINTS AND AUTHORITIES IN SUPPORT OF 
MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION at p.11.
  47 U.S.C. 301 (1994)
  47 C.F.R. §73.211(a) provides that FM stations must operate with a 
minimum effective radiated power (ERP) of 0.1kW, or 100 watts. 47 
C.F.R. §73.506 provides that noncommercial educational FM stations may 
broadcast with less than 100 watts, but in 1985 the F.C.C. promulgated 
47 C.F.R. 73.511(a), which provides that "No new noncommercial 
educational station will be authorized with less power than minimum 
power requirements for commercial Class A facilities [100 watts]." 
  See 47 C.F.R. §15.1 et. seq.
  47 C.F.R. §15.239(a)
  IBID.
  PLAINTIFF’S REPLY TO DEFENDANT’S OPPOSITION TO MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY 
INJUNCTION at p. 6.
  United States v. Medina, 718 F.Supp 928 (S.D.Fla. 1989); United 
States v. McIntire, 365 F.Supp 618 (D.N.J. 1973); United States v. 
McIntire, 370 F.Supp 1301 (D.N.J. 1974).
  The Response to the N.A.L. and the Application for Review were 
submitted to this Court with Defendant’s Opposition to Plaintiff’s 
Motion for Preliminary Injunction, as, respectively, Exhibits A and B 
thereto.
  Federal Communications Commission v. National Citizens Committee For 
Broadcasting et al. 436 U.S. 775, 795 (1978)
  The fairness doctrine imposed on radio and television broadcasters 
the requirement that discussion of public issues be presented on 
broadcast stations, and that each side of those issues be given fair 
coverage. Red Lion, supra, 395 U.S. at 369. The doctrine included 
components, codified as formal rules promulgated by the F.C.C., which 
required broadcasters to allow equal time for response by any 
identified person or group "personally attacked" on the air, and equal 
time for candidates opposing any candidate endorsed editorially by the 
broadcasters. Id. at 373; see also 32 Fed. Reg. 10303, twice amended, 
32 Fed. Reg. 11531, 33 Fed. Reg. 5362 (1968).
  Section 399 of The Public Broadcasting Act of 1967.
  The F.C.C. has filed N.A.L.s against numerous micro radio 
broadcasters who have continued their unlicensed broadcasts. The F.C.C. 
has not sought injunctive relief against any of these other 
broadcasters in spite of the fact that their broadcasts are more 
frequent and regular than those of defendant.
  See, e.g., the newspaper and magazine articles attached as Exhibits 
A and B to PLAINTIFF’S MEMORANDUM OF POINTS AND AUTHORITIES IN SUPPORT 
OF MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION.
  See the declarations submitted with PLAINTIFF’S MEMORANDUM OF POINTS 
AND AUTHORITIES IN SUPPORT OF MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION; 
Hartshorn Declaration and Zears Declaration. In one of these instances, 
the alleged interference was encountered only after the F.C.C. agent 
drove literally right up to the transmitter. See Zears Declaration at 
 7-10. The broadcast discussed therein was intended for and capable 
of reception by only the participants in the Anti-Nuclear Rally in 
immediate vicinity of the transmitter.
  Copies of the FOIA request and the F.C.C. response are attached 
hereto and marked as Exhibit A.
  To the extent that the F.C.C. justifies its ban of micro radio based 
upon the possibility that some micro radio broadcasters might cause 
interference to other licensed broadcasters, the ban constitutes an 
impermissible prior restraint of speech. New York Times Co. v. United 
States 403 U.S. 713 (1971); Near v. Minnesota  283 U.S. 697 (1931).
 Sample form attached hereto and marked as Exhibit B.
 Public Notice CRTC 1993-95, CRTC (1993), attached hereto and marked 
as Exhibit C.
 Report and Recommendations in the Low Power Television Inquiry, 
Appendix 1 (BC Docket No. 78-253).  
  47 C.F.R. §73.511(a).
  See Radio World, August 10, 1994, p. 9, "Radio Translators Fill in 
Coverage Gaps", attached hereto and marked as Exhibit D.
  47 C.F.R. §74.1201 et. seq., copy attached hereto and marked as 
Exhibit E. §74.1202(b), which provides the frequencies on which 
translators may broadcast, refers to the frequencies as "channels." 47 
C.F.R. §73.201 explains that the frequencies available for FM 
broadcasting are given numerical designations, or channel numbers. 
§73.201 also contains a table that provides the channel numbers 
designated for each available frequency. For the Court’s easy 
reference, a copy of §73.201 is attached hereto and marked as Exhibit 
F. 
  See 47 C.F.R. §74.1202.
  See 47 C.F.R. §74.1203.
  See 47 C.F.R. §74.1232.
  See 47 C.F.R. §12.1235.
  See 47 C.F.R. §12.1237.
  See 47 C.F.R. §74.1250.
  See 47 C.F.R. §74.1261.
  See 47 C.F.R. §74.1262.
  See 47 C.F.R. §74.1263.
  See PLAINTIFF’S MEMORANDUM OF POINTS AND AUTHORITIES IN SUPPORT OF 
MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION at p.8, n.3
  See Defendant’s APPLICATION FOR REVIEW OF ACTION TAKEN PURSUANT TO 
DELEGATED AUTHORITY at pp. 4-6, submitted to the F.C.C. on December 2, 
1993, in response to the F.C.C.’s FORFEITURE ORDER dated November 8, 
1993. The APPLICATION FOR REVIEW is attached as exhibit B to 
DEFENDANT’S MOTION IN OPPOSITION TO PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY 
INJUNCTION, filed with this Court on November 14, 1994. 
  PLAINTIFF’S MEMORANDUM OF POINTS AND AUTHORITIES IN SUPPORT OF 
MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION at p. 10,
  PLAINTIFF’S MEMORANDUM OF POINTS AND AUTHORITIES IN SUPPORT OF 
MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION at p.8, n.3.
  Furthermore, defendant has requested that, "To the extent that any 
standards or procedures do exist pertaining to the Commission’s 
suggestion that we request a rule change or waiver, or that persons 
should apply for a license despite the fact that they know they do not 
meet the regulatory requirements, we would request at this time that 
the Commission provide such standards or procedures to us, to guide us 
in attempting to comply with the Commission’s suggestions." See 
Defendant’s APPLICATION FOR REVIEW OF ACTION TAKEN PURSUANT TO 
DELEGATED AUTHORITY at p.5, n.18, submitted to the F.C.C. on December 
2, 1993, in response to the F.C.C.’s FORFEITURE ORDER dated November 8, 
1993. The APPLICATION FOR REVIEW is attached as exhibit B to 
DEFENDANT’S MOTION IN OPPOSITION TO PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY 
INJUNCTION, filed with this Court on November 14, 1994. The F.C.C. has 
not responded to this request.
  For the definitive discussion of why it is a cruel hoax to suggest 
that an individual such as defendant might obtain relief through this 
process, see Telecommunications, Mass Media, and Democracy; The Battle 
for the Control of U.S. Broadcasting, 1928-1935, by Robert W. 
McChesney, Oxford University Press, 1993.
  U.N. Human Rights Committee, Communication No. 11/1977, paragraph 
17.
  Advisory Opinion of the Inter-American Court, 13 November 1985, 8 
EHRR 165.



	








1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28























	








1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
1



















